Jay Gordon: you're listening to the On-Call Nightmares podcast. Every week I go out of my way to bring you conversations with technologies have spent time on call this week. I bring you one of my friends, uh, someone I have. A very I would like to call it simpatico kind of relationship with. We met while working together at digital lotion, and since then, a kind of formed, really interesting bond. But that's neither, You know, they're really the reason I spoke with Joseph Marhee of Packet. It was to find out how he became a on-call resource and where it's brought his career. Thio the present day. So, uh, just wanted to fill you in. There will likely not be an episode next week as I am going to be in Hawaii, and I really I've earned a vacation. I'm not gonna lie. It's been a pretty busy, uh, couple, I guess a really busy year for me, and I'm really going to enjoy some time off. But before I take that time off, I've got a great conversation with Joseph Marhee. I hope you enjoy it. He's a really funny guy. He's a really smart person and someone that I, I honestly can say. I've really been lucky to create a relationship with because he's someone that I've been able to talk to about you know, this world of technology a lot on dear, Not necessarily, you know, same age, Pierre y or, you know, whatever. I'm a little bit older, but I've seen a lot of things that I've done in my career. And what Joseph is don't as well, and because of that, we've become really, you know, understandable of each other situations in the years that we've been friendly. So I finally got an opportunity to say, Hey, Joseph, why don't you be on my podcast? I really think you would be great for it And he said, Yeah, I got some time Let's do it so I'd like you to be on My podcast is well, and to do that, it's pretty simple. Send me an email. It's oncallnightmares@gmail.com, or you can reach out to be on Twitter is at @CallNightmare or @jaydestro. So let's get into this week's conversation with Joseph Marhee of Packet Here. 

Jay Gordon: This is On-Call Nightmares, and every week I bring you conversations with technologists who have spent time on call in today. I'm really excited. And I know I say that every week and blah, blah, blah. You say what you want to say about my level of excitement about my guests. But you know what? Don't freakin judge me. It's my podcast. Okay? This week I have someone who is been, uh, a little bit of my career. In the past, we've crossed paths and because that we actually saw eye to eye on some things and who actually turned it into what I think is a pretty cool ah, little online friendship that we have. But, um, the best way to describe Jomar he, uh, is that he's a customer concern operations and systems worker turn cloud native lab rat at that's that's interesting. Were previously a digital ocean IBM of flat for nine systems. I'll let you kind of continue to introduce yourself from there. I just scratched my arm. Sorry. Oh, the world into this podcast. But I'm a little scratched up that I work with. So Hey, Joe.

Joseph Marhee: Hey. Yeah, uh, you know, like like you said we could have crossed fast before and we've Ah, we have kind of both been all over the the cloud provider world and seen some things I'll say in terms of in terms of what can happen at scale for customers and what, what? Ah, you know, becoming exceptionally good at identifying things that could become a SLA violation at some point. And that that's that's kind of where the customer concerned thing comes in. It's always it's always front of front of mind for me. If if you know, some something I'm looking at is going to turn into something the customer is gonna notice, And if they're gonna notice, you know how you handle that's gonna count for everything. So that's kind of that's kind of been my whole deal throughout throughout my throughout my trip through ah, through the cloud provider space and then a little bit of ah, a little bit of work in fintech and, uh, that that's kind of where where I honed this This this on call, you know, belief system. I'll call it interesting.

Jay Gordon: All right, so let's let's talk a little bit about first how you got into this little world and who you are So, you know, I gave kind of like your professional introduction, but, um, but let's get started up. How long have you been in technology? Right? Now, would you say

Joseph Marhee: this is gonna be my 11th here?

Jay Gordon: 11 years and, uh, an 11 year technology career. When did you first kind of get started as being an on call resource At one of those jobs that you were at,

Joseph Marhee: I kind of got thrown right into the fire. From from the beginning, I I started out as a database administrator. Ah, working with the medical supply company. And it was a job I had just taken with no riel technical experience. I think I read like, an M s SQL book to prepare for this. And I got thrown right into keeping that online for everything from inventory to internal search portal bulls to just, you know, customer catalog generators. So, uh, the, uh, the the emphasis has always been there on, you know, making sure that data's delivered correctly.

Jay Gordon: Sure. And I guess working with databases, I think is you really good insight into understanding multiple portions of where operations kind of goes because you have to be concerned with durability of data, the transactions that are occurring and how that will impact the distribution amongst, you know, other replicas that you might have set up or other notes that are part of an active, active group or something. So I've always found, like how you deal with backups and those and monitoring and all that I find it's a really great way to toe learn a ton about infrastructure and application deployment, because I think that when you look a tte a database, there's so many moving parts. And, um, I always used to say, and some talks I used to do is like to lose your database. You could lose your old dam.

Joseph Marhee: Yep, that's that's definitely the reality. But database, you know, you you learn the balance of what makes the distributed system. You know what's flowing through that distributed system. So you're highly aware of how correct your things are, how how ordered, everything is just

Jay Gordon: That's That's everything, I would probably say, like the first distributed system that I actually had any riel administrative access to were like MySQL uh, clusters, you know, which were just basically creating replicas for additional reads or for most of time. It was just like, Where do you do your backups? Yeah, setting those up? Yeah. And I found Look, keeping those all together, it was just a really good way. So you go on call, you start working with databases. And was it, like, official rotation? Or was it? Hey, you, you're in charge of these things. We're gonna call you when

Joseph Marhee: they're broke. Yeah, we we started out. Very, uh, I went into this very inexperienced, so I came in as part of a pretty standard corporate I t, uh, workflow. It was me. Ah, Web server administrator in them, like our developer. And, you know, as time went on, I realized, you know, this isn't really working like for us to just paint each other in the middle of the night. You know, we need to be We need to be a little more. Fuller's a little more full stack. Can you be able to respond to incidents in some meaningful way, whoever's around and that was that was my first. I didn't realize at this point that it was that it was a whole, you know, discipline of being on call. This was my first, you know, exposure to tech culture being a being a being a working professional And, uh, yeah, it was It was a wild way to learn, but she kind of Ah, you get to make all the common mistakes by yourself and then realize, you know, when you when you see it elsewhere, you kind of know how to put out a fire where it starts. So

Jay Gordon: so, did you have a traditional like entry into technology? Or would you say you had nontraditional when I say traditional, like, did you go to school for computer science or information systems or something of that nature? Where did you just kind of fall into it?

Joseph Marhee: I'd always kind of been interested in In tech. I was always, Ah, was it was a Lennox user, So I knew how to, you know, debug a workstation and stuff. But I was I was in college at the time trying to trying to work my way through a history degree, and, um, you know, I ran into I ran into trouble with my part time job at the time, trying to, you know, make enough for tuition. So, you know, I go to a job there. I, uh I reached out to a network of people, Anybody who would give me a job. And I found a Ah, I found ah, conglomeration of, you know, medical supply companies in Houston where I was living at the time and giving me contract work. And that was that that ah metamorphosed I supposed into, you know, the technologist You see, before you So

Jay Gordon: you spend your time and kind of like corporate IT. And then eventually you move toward works. I guess the cloud needed systems and essentially building what was early on the new secondary cloud. And that's I think the best way to put it was that, you know, we got really as a cloud industry introduced to eight of us first, that's what we all kind of new, and then then came from their Google and Azure. But the secondary cloud to me, I think, has always been once of long term players. The lin odes they became what is the cloud? But you know, forever were just of'em company on. And then you became part of what was also kind of ah, wave of big companies like IBM that we're getting into second wave hosting. If your second wave cloud, if you would would you want to talk a little bit about that? Like your own call time, maybe. What was it? Blue box. Hey, eventually, IBM

Joseph Marhee: I was part of soft Layer at the time during that during that Ah, that thing and and, um, I was I was part of a Ah, I was part of a 24 hour, you know, Lennox support team of systems administrator. So we were We were It was it was like being on call for 40 hours a week, simply responding to incidents, because it was all it was all reactive. It was all, you know, the constantly being fire host with with with trouble tickets. And there's no better way to learn any number of systems than being put it into that situation. And I I credit that as my as probably might my single most valuable, you know, learning experience Those two and 1/2 years I was doing that and, uh, you know, you you learn two things. You first of all learned that the people on the other end of this pipe are also humans concerned about their business. And, um but then also, you get to know you get to dig deep on a lot of technology being in the case of in the case of software, there was, you know, constantly, you know, virtualization issues, switches. was rather issues, uh, storage, durability, issues, all kinds of all kinds of things. And then the IBM acquisition happened. And then there's a whole other sweet of technologies to get to get acquainted with. As you know, employee started coming on board to use the service as well. And, you know, that was that was a very good Ah, there. I can't say there is that there was a better way to tow, you know, learned learn incident management than toe to constantly be under it.

Jay Gordon: And so this is IBM. And then after IBM, you move on todo correct. Yep. And so there you're part of what I would call just a really big portion of that second wave cloud where Dio was really at that time you came in, I'm gonna guess was 2013 2014 2014. Yeah. This is when they has got a real out of a head of steam around their product a ton of money towards the company from, you know, rounds of funding and you're part of, ah, big time growth period there. They're building out in on dealing with customer issues. That comes a huge part of your day, and it's more than just being on call. It's being always dealing with stuff. Um, tell me about what you learn from kind of that experience of like another fire hose with something. It's just growing.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, my possibly my favorite part of my my role as as part of the customer success in sales engineering organization at At Idea was was just just understanding, you know, your products. Not always gonna be a one size fits all solution for everybody who you know, ideally, Ideally, if you're competing with AWS, GCP, azure, you you want to be able to be able to go after the same customers. What, you can't do that. And so and you sometimes have different little support for things you have different. You're gonna run into different, you know, growing pains than you might on a different cloud. As the interesting thing about that is, you kind of get to know you kind of get to while your company's growing. You get to work with these other, these other companies that are incubating or just starting this scale themselves, and you become very familiar with with, uh, with what they're doing. It's not. It's not just they reach out to you when they're in trouble. They reach out to you when they want architecture advice when they want. You know, you know what? What's what's the pulse on this technology or that technology? And, um, this was around the time that that kubernetes was starting to really get steam, and ah, and ah, we did a lot of that. We did a lot of that work with a lot of customers early on for a lot of different verticals, and you kind of get to see, you know, in action what what is It is not working to get to interact with these customers in a way that you don't in a traditional reactive role. We were very proactive as an organization to

Jay Gordon: see you responded. So you're acting like a consultant. You're acting like, you know, an adviser. You're also acting is like a first year of support when something, you know, like poor happened. So, yeah, I guessing that there's a lot of trust in a relationship building that comes with being in that role that that extends beyond just standard. Like I'm writing code Ah, pr and having these things added into the repositories.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, absolutely. There was a lot of, ah, A lot of us were actively contributing to community projects to, you know, help customers get what they needed in these in these projects, not just not just Theo service is, But, you know, if they're using stuff like rancher mezzos or whatever, whatever they're doing, you know, we we we would be we would be on top of trying to understand that inside and out, to try to try to get them over the end zone, to get this into production. And

Jay Gordon: so do you want with with, um, with Bryan Lyle's like digital oceans and that role

Joseph Marhee: you have Bryan and and I and a few other few other folks who are now our superstars, that other at other cloud Cos um

Jay Gordon: I know Bryan is just like invaluable towhat's going on with the the growth of kubernetes. Yes. It's cool to see how he came from that kind of environment, where the massive proof and the need to scale products led to these other opportunities.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, it's it's it's been great to kind of See, you know, these. These, uh it was a very exciting time to get to see all of this grow. But in a high growth environment like that was, it was great to be able to work with these years. Just immense talents. It was it was crazy. So

Jay Gordon: let's let's move a little forward and see, uh, and your time a digital ocean. Where do you go after that? And where you settled in now it is?

Joseph Marhee: Yeah. After digital ocean, I bounced around a couple of fintech cos I worked at a platform nine. They have a kubernetes open stacks tests. That is just wonderful. Say that And ah, right now I'm back in the back in the cloud world at packet as an ecosystem engineer where I spend a lot of my time um, doing a lot of this this ah, high level proof of concept stuff for whatever's you know, whatever's gonna gonna be the next big thing on cloud. And how do we get these? These, you know, perpetually moving forward industries to use these technologies, their benefits. So telco products, storage products, you know, other other cloud provider is running on bare metal. And, um, I kind of get the leverage, all of that experience, all that pain from on call rotations from incidents from from past experience, consulting to kind of do do this research heavy role and try to, you know, try to try to make the most of the resource that we have. We're at a red, a very good time in terms of, you know, developer tooling. We, you know, we didn't use to have terra form on that. That's a that's a huge one. And, um and, you know, in the time I spent outside of cloud at Fintech and Rick early, it's simple and, you know, just a couple of other things. I I, uh I got to I got to be on the consumer side of things for a while, and that was, you know, very, very informative. It's one thing. It's one thing to respond to these issues. When you're the vendor, it's another thing. T They've ended and uh, and that that was, uh that what that was such that was, ah, great set of learning experiences in general, I

Jay Gordon: always say that one of the more interesting, like approaches I've had to understanding Ah, customer pain was when I worked in consulting, and I used a number of different clouds for different reasons on behalf of my customer and then had to basically deal with, Well, why doesn't this work the way it works? Who I talked to, you know, and navigating through those like I don't wanna call phone trees because there's no those, like ways to actually get to the people who give me the big picture answers as opposed to, you know, getting support stuff that was just pasted into a A ticket. So I I do understand, like a lot of experience over those times off, taking all that and them being able as a guess, doing what you're doing now to be able to take all the information that you've built in experience and give people better answers and build a better product. If that's what you're doing, that's this. It's time to get into the meat and potatoes of the podcast and the meat. The potatoes starts with the rules, and I believe you're pretty familiar with it anyway, because, um, it's it's what I do. So the rules of the podcast or simple don't incriminate yourself because spicy as you like to get it, uh, let's let's not incriminate you. Um, don't incriminate others. I repeat the spiciness. I know you like to keep it spicy, but we do need to ensure that we don't know anybody under the bus because we do not do, Linc, We're play have salutary backers. And the third rule is always help us learn. Because, to be honest with you, the reason why this podcast justice to learn. So what I'd like you to do now, if you don't mind, is give me a, uh, an on-call nightmare, an incident that really stuck with you and that you said he learned a lot

Joseph Marhee: from Yeah, definitely. I had I had one on call rotation that that I, you know, pinned down is like the one formative experience the one super formative experience for me. And it came in the form of, you know, this this high velocity, you know, uh, financial transaction platform and we would have, you know, pretty predictable loads of load spikes in traffic. Pretty predictable behavior with the only thing we couldn't anticipate was was, uh, you know, during during, you know, things that might happen on the fly that might catch us by surprise. That might affect the markets. And, uh, we often we we were catching ourselves off guard some of the time. We spent a lot of time in monitoring and we got to the because of the point where our on prem hardware our stuff in the cloud everything was just top to bottom, just, you know, fire hosed in monitoring alerts. Now, Jos was a mess. Pager duty going off every 30 seconds. And you know, you there's something to be said for being overly overly, uh, overly observing of your of your ah, of your platform And our big are big deal was was Ah, it was exhausting to be on call you'd be on call for for for for five days, and then he'd be off and then somebody else will go on. And there was Ah, we were small operations team. We were We had a big organ. We had a big organization of developers are a hapless, you know, enormous. But our ops team was necessarily small. We had, we had, Ah, some longtime people we had. We had very good knowledge sharing, which is pretty uncommon in a place that has, you know, longstanding engineers. Sometimes it's a lot of tribal knowledge to work out and just just wasn't the case here. But when I came on, everybody was kind of everybody just seemed kind of burnt out. We were constantly aware of, you know, where the APP was, faulting, and, uh, we'd have these events where you'd be debugging something for a solid, like, six hours. You wouldn't be able to get up from your desk just because something would fall over. And, uh, you know, we had we had our run books. We had everything. We were we were just we were well prepared, but we kind of just mentally entered this, like, fatigue mode and toil, if you will.

Jay Gordon: And I think that that's a common issue. You get so much toil in your organization that you'll never really dig yourself out. And it tends to really bring down the morale of a team that wants to do more than restart now or, you know, read the same log and report the same error again.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, absolutely. And there's kind of two ways to deal with that, and you can automate a lot of this away. So say stuff stuff that you know is gonna auto resolve. You can have a bod handle it or something. But then a lot of times, if you're if you're customer concerned, you're gonna want to know what those faults are. You are gonna want to know if there was something you could have done it prevented. Like, even if it is a five second blip, did your customer notice it? Is that going to make a difference in the quality of service? It turns out, in a financial transaction, you know, five seconds is a lifetime. 

Jay Gordon: So I mean, there's all that like, Colonel bypass technology around network interface is the fact that they're trying to get all those transactions. Don't faster than the other person. That way, the way they build that system.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, absolutely. And so the way, the way I chose to approach this, I was kind of the junior guy on the team at that point. and, um so it fell to me to figure out what to do about this, and I was tasked With what? What, uh, what my team's director called called a monitoring on it. So, you know, basically what I did was I wrote a script and map our infrastructure. Tell us what servers are, what servers exist, what monitors exist. And then give me a map of what's plugged into What? What isn't monitored? What is monitored? Maybe we're monitoring something too much. You had a second later toe that spreadsheet of what actually resulted in pages that we had to respond to. And then you're looking at what? Then? You're looking at this. This this graph of, you know, what are we spending our time on when we're on call? Is this something that would have resolved itself that we acknowledge? But then it resolved itself two seconds later. We probably don't need to monitor that is aggressively. But if it's a fault that that surface to the user, which we would see in tools like Splunk or something, you know, some, some kind of a PM that would determine, you know, did it. Did it impact transaction times If so, you know, that's that's a priority for us to to tune that tune. That alert to the application to respond to that. And there are other stuff we just found was was so overly monitored. It was just serving thio. Give everybody heart attacks instead of instead of, you know, us being able to do anything meaningful about It's a database.

Jay Gordon: For example. Did any of this noise caused you to miss some real signal? You might have missed something that was really impacting.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, for example, during during an outage. For during that during one of these spikes where we had a market incident. Um, you know, we were debugging, you know, something in our in our database replication because we had we would have Ah, we would have every every one of our sites would have a read replica for the app to, you know, pull transaction history and stuff when we're having issues with replication. And we totally missed that during during the mess of all this of, you know, one of our other distributed caches started, started having, you know, started missing things. And, you know, we were We couldn't We couldn't articulate where this delay was coming from in our FBI responses in our responses. And we realized afterwards, you know, we stayed online, so, you know, it wasn't a huge issue, but it was something that we caught after, you know, in our in our weekly review like this was something we could have responded to so much sooner if we had just noticed this instead of, you know, fielding the hundreds of orders that came in for something we were aware of.

Jay Gordon: So his pager fatigue really lead Thio degradation of service. And I think that that really gets to the root of what we talk about Dev ops and how to like improve improving is about not necessarily allowing these these moments to overtake a business. Because when you allow these this noise and I guess it's it's also some of the premises around observe abilities, that noise is not really helpful. Yeah, it's been like three years, and I've talked about this. I mean, one of the people I'm glad I got to have the conversation with was charity from Honey Comb and we talked about the template, the monitoring template, and I know you've come from a place where you dealt with the monitoring template. I say the Monterey Temple because there's a lot of places that your servers got the monitoring, too. What and you don't with defaults that were based on arbitrary things didn't make sense for different servers with different types of applications running. And I think that that's where you start really improving a CZ a teen When you look at how much monitoring you've done and you say, you know what? Why are researching for RAM utilization on these protective layer set of database servers when we want RAM to be used because we want to do more in memory Data's, uh, you know, access,

Joseph Marhee: right? Yeah, And that's kind of where we were, where we took our response to this and, you know, with armed armed with that data of how we were spending our time and what we were monitoring efficiently or not, we we kind of figured out what what could be dealt with automatically, that customers won't notice if it gets dealt with automatically. Get silently. We don't have to. We don't have toe put our hands on it for to recover what does and then, you know, we we entered this this face where we saw, you know, these these templates that were coming out of, you know, pretty pretty common stuff. But what we had, we had customize hardware. So we needed to modify some of these checks to match our use case. We couldn't just, you know, we couldn't just rely on, you know, eight of us to tell us when something was burning down. We couldn't rely on, uh, we just couldn't rely on some of these alerts to tell us what we really needed to know. Like you said, there's there's application types that use that use the CPU differently. And in our case, we needed to know we needed to know. Well, if we're if we're hitting a CPU limit, is it? Is it just one core is the hole Is the hole host on fire? You know, So we we really got we really got down and dirty and needed to admit, you know, what wasn't wasn't working for us. So, you know, there's a lot of guilt involved in going through, you know, config manage with Bravo and tearing out monitoring checks.

Jay Gordon: There's a lot to be said about knowing too much about your CIA and not looking for the right things. If you're spending all your time on I Ops Utilization and RAM and um, CPU utilization, they're not looking for. How long did the process that customers expect to happen? How long did that take and what's my, you know, acceptable time and what's my in acceptable or unacceptable time? How do I start planning around that? And maybe that's the way that you you build better operations teams and a better rotation overall for uncle.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, absolutely. And that's what this turned into a process that we started doing initially. We started doing it every quarter, but we started doing it on a rolling basis, so we would go on for the we would create tickets for everything at the beginning of the quarter after we would run this this audit script. And then, you know, we we would have a target date for all of these all of these things to me in place. So by the time it ran the next holiday, we could we could determine how useful this was going to be for us. We would test it under, you know, in low test scenarios and uh, in a development environment, we would try to approximate what this might look like in production. And it allowed us to be a little It allowed us to be a little bleeder And how we and how we did these things, you know, towards towards the end of my time at this at this place, we, uh we, you know, we found we were actually able to sleep through the night. We we weren't staying up knowing that a 3 a.m. page was coming for just like a routine rabbit. Mq restart or something. You know, something like that.

Jay Gordon: Yeah. And that kind of like little relief on on a team is you can't put a dollar value on it once you I mean, you can actually, Yeah, absolutely. But you can say that you're getting a good night's sleep, and you're going to work the next day and you're not dealing with a current fire that you've dealt with. You know that you've clutched at 3 a.m. Until you get to work at nine. Or 10. You know, it's it's a big, big relief. So what would you say? You know, you told me there were some changes. But what would you say your team learned the most about this incident. You know, all these alerts that you had to deal with? We really We really

Joseph Marhee: had to learn that. You know, we we collectively as a team seemed to have a self esteem problem just just because we we felt we were kind of at the bottom of the totem pole in terms of engineering. And we felt like this is what work looks like when you're in ops. Engineer, you're putting out fires here. You know, you're fielding this data. It doesn't. It doesn't make you less of an engineer to engineer your way out of a problem. And in this case, our answer was to, you know, code better alerts be be more scientific about you know, how we detect these things. And we really we had we had to recognize this disability in ourselves, and I think I think I made us a more confident, competent team. We all went on to do you know, our own things after a while, and, uh, we all had our strengths, and we all kind of pulled those things together and we realized, you know, this is This is this is the kind of team work we've always been capable of. And, uh, you know, I'll say these were these were some of the most dedicated, talented people I've had the privilege to work with and, you know, t c. To see people, you know, demoralize, depressed, exhausted Just all the time. It's there's nothing. There was nothing greater than been feeling like we were not only improving our workload but that we were contributing meaningful Lee to this business. We were We felt like, for the first time that we were full partners in this in this thing

Jay Gordon: and the next I think the thing you also said there was that he used you were scientific About how you brought your change is that you came to it with data. And I think that the more data that you have when you wantto modify a process that it's, you know, a company is doing more data that, I guess, justifies your change. The better you are, it probably being able to see that change acted.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, exactly. And in our case, it was it was not unlike It's not unlike, you know, in Moneyball when? When? When, Uh, you know when they when they say the metric that matters that matters, isn't this It's how often did they get on base and our customers getting ableto do? Their thing is getting on base, and that's you know what? What was serving that That interest?

Jay Gordon: It's It's really true. And you know that That's funny is that the whole idea behind Moneyball was just getting on base is the most important thing. You only get three outs in a minute and every single out counts. And maybe you can kind of make correlation between you know, how long a person is going to stick with a Web application and that there are not, You know, after a certain amount of time, they'll just give up and go away. You know, maybe there's an interesting correlation that you can't just pay attention to the home runs because you sure 30 home runs but 30 home runs and only you know a to 14 on, you know, on base percentage is terrible. And so maybe Yeah, sure you got 30 you customers. But if you could have gotten if you could have got about 100 or 150 the difference was the availability. You know that that makes a big difference. And so it's interesting to see how availability and observe ability are part of the new ways it will. So we got through this nightmare. Your is working there, and then I want to hear a little bit more about you. Tell me about kind of what you're working on lately. Um, and how you feel that's helping. You know, you make it a, uh, make better applications for people how you're helping people. I should say, make better applications. Sorry, I I didn't use my words correctly. So tell me a little about what? You're doing a packet

Joseph Marhee: now? Yeah, a lot of what I do with with packet is our ah is kind of what we're describing as this way describe ourselves was elaborates almost just just dealing with, you know, these these ah emerging technologies, emerging patterns and, uh, my mind. My niche over the last few years has kind of become containers and kubernetes. And so a lot of my work tends to tends to gravitate there and with stuff like a three s, I found I found packet well, position to kind of deliver on the promise of ej compute. And ah, you know, I was I was I was I was gratified. I should say I'm not Not, uh I was gratified more than anything else to find that you know, these things from my past are are the things that work best now to help me solve problems. So, you know, a big thing A big thing that we worked on was was a three s on packet and providing kind of this edge compute resource of the infrastructure edge and so, you know, almost acting like like a CD en of kubernetes clusters. And, uh and that was that was a big part of what we're working on. We were, you know, paving everything with terra form. We were We were you know, we I wrote a kind of mini federation library to kind of synchronize resource is make sure all the clusters are identical. And then we we just basically proof of concept, different distributed workloads between these edge sites devices, you know, on Prem, in offices in our homes, whatever up to these clusters that were nearby. And then see how that data traveled between the edge sites between the central cluster, which was, you know, full on Cuban edge cluster. And so it's a lot of experimentation like that to see you know, what's what's the what What are the kind of toleration is this thing can have? And, um, now we're seeing that it applies to, you know, stacks that have been around forever. Like telco stacks, for example, they have certain network environments. How do you get those network requirements fulfilled on kubernetes? Well, it turns out a lot of same principles apply. He gets a look at the same same projects, open contrail for networking. Stuff like that is, is, you know, that's that's never gonna go away. And yeah and Thio. And if you need a profile network performance across, you know, a containerized network, you know, you still have all the same tools available to you. You, You You I perfect. You know, like, uh, you can you can use the same profiling tools de trace. Uh, all that stuff is still available to you in this containerized world. And it's it's interesting to me that, um we're seeing the consciousness kind of shift towards kubernetes as quote unquote. The new Lenox. I know that's a API for people, but you know, is it's It's interesting that people are starting to see this as the substrate for everything else. So I'm kind of I'm kind of trying to bridge that. That understanding of you know, what these clouds get built on and what? That what consuming that cloud actually looks like

Jay Gordon: Very cool. Well, you know, we are gonna roll it on to the end, And, uh, one of the things I like to do at the end of the podcast is just ask the person I'm interviewing. What kind of advice would you give to someone that's on call right now, that's, you know, in a rotation and dealing with outages and incidents. What advice can you give?

Joseph Marhee: I would I would say, Just keep note of how you're spending your time on a call. What? What? You're what you're doing. When you're responding to incidents, do you find yourself doing the same things over and over? Are you avoiding sleep because you know you're gonna get Paige to three or five in the morning? You know, things like that tell you that maybe there's something you could be doing to evaluate your on call practices. Your observe ability practices whatever to make this more livable for you and your team. Because this isn't just you, it's your team's help. It's your organization felt. And if you're not healthy organization, your organization will be either. You know, I'm not gonna say I'm not going to say cos care about your mental health, but they benefit from it. So if you're not, if you're not doing well, you you. That's one thing you can d'oh to try to start that conversation about about team health, organization, health, whatever. If you if you see these things developing as a course of had it,

Jay Gordon: Well, thanks a lot. That's that's really great advice, and we're gonna wrap it up. So thank you very much. Joseph, I really appreciated your time today. Um and you know, this was a lot of really interesting and just great stuff that I think a lot of people can really too. Especially just dealing with the constant in and out of alerts that don't go anywhere. So it was great talking to you. And thanks for being on.

Joseph Marhee: Yeah, Thanks for having me.

Jay Gordon: No, problem, we'll be right back and we'll finish up this latest episode of On-Call Nightmares


Jay Gordon: Well, that's another great episode here of On-Call Nightmares. I'm so glad I get to do these interviews with people who just have really interesting things to share with us. And Joe is is definitely one of those people, so keep an eye on him and what he's doing. I think he's a really smart person. Anyhow, Thanks again for listening. Thio call nightmares. Like I said, I'll be going on vacation next week so I may not have an episode. But hey, stick around because I will be back after that. I've got a whole summer ahead of me where I plan on talking to his many of you as possible. So thanks again for listening and we'll catch you next time. Where every time I do this podcast, I go out of my way to find out conversations with technologists who spent time. One call Thanks again

