Jay Gordon: you're listening to the on call nightmares podcast, and every week I bring you conversations with technologists who spent time on call. This week. I speak to Dan Bentley. Dan Bentley is a software engineer who's currently fixing micro service, developed as CEO of Tilt, and that's still not dead. Before that, he was a Google for 11 years, and then a Twitter was working on. He's open for the booth. Has checks from dollars. Okay, good enough, huh? He's a really good conversation. Very glad I met Dan maybe about a couple of years ago at Gotham Go and thought that he had a really cool product after doing that conversation. You know what kind of talked about things here and there. And I was looking for someone to talk to you about on call. And he's like, Look, I wasn't necessarily traditional on call, but I got a story about some stuff. I broke and it sounds like a nightmare, and they said, You know what, Dan? I think that works so dance on this week. And if you want to be on the podcast, let me tell you, it's not very, very difficult for you to be on in the future, you can just go ahead and send me a Twitter D M at on call Nightmare. You can send me a message at J destro or even easier, just sent an email to on Call Nightmare's at gmail dot com. Um, so that's really it. I want to also say I've been using a service for the last few months called a podcast podcast transcribe dot com. They've been really great. They are non profit. They just ask for a $5 donation. I've been giving them some cash here and there to make sure that all these episodes have been transcribed. I think you should check it out. If you also do a podcast, make sure you have transcribes transcriptions for your podcasts. Of the people who are hard of hearing can get an opportunity to hear what's going on or read what's going on. I should say part of me anyhow, I'd like to get into the podcast. Let's go ahead and talk to Dan off tilt and see what he's got going on. You're listening to the young call nightmares, podcasts, and every week I bring you conversations. The technologists that have spent time on Paul or have been part of really big, really big, um, complex systems that they may have been part of young call process. And either way, I've got someone today that I think is doing some really interesting stuff. Dan Bentley. Ah, he's from a company called Tilt and Windmill. They're building lots of developer products. Ceviche. You can do some really off some stuff, especially around Cooper eddies and go. I've seen some of it before in the past. I let Dan talk about it as we go on. But Dan's done things like work for Google. Where for Twitter. Um, and he's open for the who. So I I gotta hear more about that. Um So, Dan, welcome to the podcast.

Dan Bentley: Yeah, thanks. It's great to be here.

Jay Gordon: No problem. You know, I like to bring on people that I've had, like, some sort of interaction with their some sort of like I don't know. I think it makes it easier for the conversation happen once in a while. And, you know, we met a couple years ago. I think it a Gotham Go. Um, and I really wanted to say that one of the things I think is really cool. Is that, um you know, we talked about doing this and a couple days ago, and you said, you gotta understand. I don't come from traditional on call like, up stuff. And I thought that was actually really cool to talk about because you mentioned something that will get into having to do with a complete environment that you took down. To be honest with you, I don't think you've been anywhere until you've taken down environment at least once. Because then you yeah,

Dan Bentley: um I Then you've been really, like, pre disaster. And I know that story of, you know, someone takes down the environment, and then the boss comes in and, you know, the guy says, Uh oh, you know, Please don't fire me, But I'd understand it. And the Bosco's fire you I just spent $2 million training you, you know, Are you really get it?

Jay Gordon: Yeah, it's always interesting. Like I am. I always like to mention about how I took down Digital Ocean. Ah, really, really early. Like when I started working there. And what we found out more than anything was just a poor hierarchy off permissions and We also found out like some things remained like duplicate. And and it really sucks that we found out the wrong way. But I guess both those early times taking stuff down can teach people whole lot.

Dan Bentley: Yep, yep, Absolutely.

Jay Gordon: So, Dan, I want to talk to you a little bit about your your starting technology, because that's the way I like to kind of get this podcast started. So tell me, you had kind of like a traditional introduction into tech. Is that right?

Dan Bentley: Um, I actually say nontraditional, but in the over privileged way up. And my dad worked at Bell Labs. And so, um, you know, when I was sick from school and my dad was busy, uh, brain Kernaghan with someone who'd come and pick me up from school. And so I think, uh, I ended up going to school and studying CS on. So in that way, very traditional, but just kind of growing up, talking about quick sort over dinner, uh, I think is nontraditional. But in the more privilege way, which I want to, you know, acknowledge and figure out how to help make it that people don't need, You know, that or even just, you know, going to school force cs to get into the industry because, uh, this is a great kind of job. It's creating a lot of societal wealth, and I want everyone to be able to benefit from it.

Jay Gordon: Scotches. So you came from you went into Stanford after school, You know, general education. You went over and you got your English degree. Um, what kind of lead you from going from, like, say, an English degree to moving into technology?

Dan Bentley: Yeah. Yeah. So, um uh oh, yeah. Spending high school and younger talking about quick short growing up, I found that when I got to well, like cs classes, they gave me more Now NHS. But my brain camp was was already thinking that way. And I really learned education is supposed to, like, teach you how to think in a new way. And so going in and taking English classes, I really had to, like, expand it on and ask different questions and have different kinds of conversations. And that was really I thought more, uh, kind of mind bending then. Yeah, going in and doing some interesting cs group project. But that was we were useful in terms of growth growing as a person.

Jay Gordon: Dasha. That's that's interesting. You know, I I've found that people who, um, have fun ways out of their comfort zone on and start doing things to, to help them grow a little. I've found to be people that tend to be really successful in technology because they come to recognize that there are differences in people in society and getting different views on things. I, I really think, helps, you know, Interestingly enough, like I I dropped out of school after, like, my first year and 1/2. But one of the things that I actually did that I went back is that took another English class? Maybe, you know, after I've been in working maybe 10 years, And, uh, I did that because I felt that I needed to be able to express myself better. Whether it's written communication and customers are writing that email to another co worker because I started realizing that what technology gives you is a lot of great skills to build and create, but not necessarily always doesn't come home with the ability to communicate. And so I've really learned that doing something as simple as taking in English class. Help me improve my education around just communicating with others.

Dan Bentley: Yeah. Yeah, Noah. Totally. I think I think that's really important. You know, Strunk and White. And just how do you emphasize for, you know, being understood in ways that will help things move forward instead of ah yet just proving that your quote unquote right is Ah. Ah! Good way to think about it. Yeah,

Jay Gordon: absolutely. So then after school, you go over and you spend time at Google for a while. Like, were you originally interning there? Did you go full time right after school?

Dan Bentley: Yeah, I I started as an intern in 2004 and they came in and my intern project was Hey, the nightly billed for all of Google is now taking more than 24 hours. So it's not really nightly anymore. Uh, how can we take that and distributed across a bunch of computers using not there wasn't even board which was Google's internal system. Eventually that kind of inspired kubernetes. But the system before that, distributing it and getting it so that now you could run all the builds intestine. The code base in 40 minutes instead of more than 24 hours getting better and so ended up then, Ah, um, that was 2004 That full joining as, ah, full employee and, uh, ending up being the first person at Google who was full time on developer tooling and experience. Up till then, it should open what were known as Intergroup. Let's instead of the group that you were assigned to, it was kind of volunteers from across the organ, someone just best smartest people working on tooling to actually saying, Hey, no, this is big enough and fundamental enough that we actually need a group that works, works on not anyone product that user see, but the internal developer experience.

Jay Gordon: So did you see kind of like the creation and development of go while you were there, or was that not really around the products that you were working with?

Dan Bentley: Oh, um, that came later. I guess that was more like 2009 and I certainly knew them. But even then I think that was your Maura so fundamental versus Hey, what What's the build tools? So now a tte. The time it was called Blaise, and now it's open source Basil, that the internal source code management, which was based on her force. That's been talked about a bunch of an article. I think the communications of the E C. M called y Google Stores. You know its entire about its billions of lines of source code in a single repo. Those kinds of tooling. Sure, Yeah,

Jay Gordon: but I I was just curious like that was the interesting part I found about the time you were Google was a big time of, like, revolutionary change at what they were doing there and that the practices and procedures that they started kind of utilizing became more and more part of general technology as opposed to This is just the way Google builds this. And that's why I was curious if you'd seen go kind of come out of that shop at the time. I was curious if it was, ah, product of needing a better way to compile things faster, Better a. I was always curious if that was really the driver behind go at that time.

Dan Bentley: Yeah, Yeah, I think seeing hey, need these systems to make c++ builds manageable. And, you know, one of goes huge advantages is compiled time. And a lot of that is, I think, yeah, totally driven by. By this point, I think now you see all the debates. I know they're like parody Twitter accounts about the idea of a mano repo. And, uh, you know, I'm sure other companies kind of did it, but I think Google really, uh, popularized it. Or just, you know, the eventual exodus of Googlers to other companies is where you would You're somewhat annoyingly well at Google. We And one of the things that that was accessible was having Amon a Repo where all of the code for some huge percentage of the company was in one repo. And, yeah, I

Jay Gordon: could imagine tests and everything like you said. But at one point just took a while, and it just took people like yourself to make it. And other teams, obviously to make things run faster, quicker, the pile better test quicker, quicker, whatever it is, it's just more than anything is just amazing to me how that much innovation came out of the shot. That shop, based on the fact that you had such a huge spread, love the systems across the world so that be able to do deployments quickly to be able to do updates quickly. All that stuff, it's just amazing how much was built out of your shop in that particular time. So you spend 11 almost 12 years at Google, right? Yeah. And then make a decision. You go to Twitter for almost so two years on. And what What were you working on it at Twitter?

Dan Bentley: Oh, also internal developer tools. I I kind of have, ah, bee in my bonnet about these. I think they're really away. That Yeah, you can really drive a lot of productivity. And I think we just you know, there's that X k c d about like, you know, my codes, compiling being the number one excuse for programmers wealth. And I think it's it's still true. And you know, the more that we can show developers, you know, the piece of information that's going to move them forward, the more productive. And I know that business centered, I'd say, like the more rewarding and experience it can be it the more that you can stay in flow and really get what you care about done better. And, uh, yeah, more elegantly,

Jay Gordon: absolutely And that's kind of what I believe. You're doing it at Windmill now, Um, like full time if you're looking to build developer tooling, to make life easier for teams to build, because some of the things we've talked about your balloon building, collaborative, real time tools and stuff like that, I think is really interesting. But now it's time to take a little look further in the past, and that trip to the past requires me to tell some rules. That's the rules. The pine cast its the way I do things. People who listen You may already be familiar with the rules, but let's go over them. Rule number one Do not incriminate yourself. Why? Because nobody wants to get in any trouble. But I think maybe after this time you're too. We don't incriminate others. And the big reason we don't do that is because all of our retrospectives are blameless. That's how we look at Dev Ops and s sorry, blameless nous. And when I say retrospective, the third learn is but the rules to help us learn this podcast is one giant retrospective. Um, everyone I talked to gives us a look back at something that they've done on it doesn't necessarily have to be a time you were on call, but you certainly showed the value alone Call in this particular incident. So I'd like you to give us a quick story about, um, how you took something down. Kind of important.

Dan Bentley: Yeah. Yeah. So at the time I was working on a tool that was a predecessor to blaze. Uh, so how Googlers did there development another. It was actually a ah up iPhone script that was just checked into the repo. And so when you'd come in in the morning, you'd you sink your code, get the new copy, and it would have Ah, yeah, like, you just be running it essentially as a show script from there. And there was, like, a make file that was checked in. And I, um, was checking. It was working on an improvement, and someone suggested a reef actor and I made the reef actor and managed to forget to Then this was python. So import the library and that then the, uh, program would die with an import air pretty early in its execution, which meant that anyone who pulled that code would, uh Yeah. Would goto build and it would. And getting air pretty early in the life is Yeah. On dso got reports of this on your email, and I am pretty quickly made a quick change. And because at the time there was ah, not see, I that would, like, get the change, Got the change in. So then it was interesting, right? Can't the firefighting was telling people? Yeah, that's fixed in, uh, at head, so just, uh, think and it will be fixed. But it still took most of the rest of the day to actually get you know, everyone. You know, that that people would mainly, you know, see a link or something and go sink backwards and tell them Yeah, yeah, it's known Broken there. Um and so the result was yet that's not a good experience. Lets you be way more careful about checking in changes to that script. It wasn't too long until we then started actually distributing copies of it, uh, as like a binary instead of just as a script. But athlete mint that there was, like, a period of 40 minutes of of the source control history where trying to build would just get an air on my first year. Few dozens of milliseconds of execution.

Jay Gordon: So this is across the entire Google development environment.

Dan Bentley: Yeah, Yeah, uh, any of the Yeah, exactly. Eso

Jay Gordon: how many developers at that time would you attempt to even try to predict were impacted?

Dan Bentley: Yeah. Um, I think that was, um I won't say, like, summer of 2000 for 2005. So a couple a couple 1000? Um, you know, I don't think everyone seemed I don't think Yeah, but yeah, that's that's the order of magnitude more than 5 5000

Jay Gordon: Yeah. I mean, I think that it's it's important to recognize the fact that when we talk about especially early computing environments, there were the last isolation and just tons and tons of people all using them at the same time. I think like a lot of free Dr Days and why we looked at Backer isolation is a way to to environments of, and it's terrifying to think that because I remember someone saying to me, will make sure you roll a deaf environment and then make sure your role is staging environment. And then after that, then we rule prod environment. And I would think about the fact that we've spent so much time. And the biggest issues we would have sometimes is that someone wouldn't point the config properly. And you would try to do something on a deaf environment you end up doing in fraud. No one would notice it until the alerting finally came around. And and so here's the question I have for you. When did people start noticing that things weren't working correctly, did it? It was it just a automatic? Um, Did did the team. I don't know if s Sorry. Wasn't oh, in practices.

Dan Bentley: Uh, this was not even in any kind of data center. This was just on your workstation when you went toe Renee unit test Or do

Jay Gordon: also, this is beyond distributed environment. This is just running local test, Correct? Yeah, And it broke it for everyone. A google? Yeah. Wow. Wow. So I guess yet the spread and impact sometimes can be just based on what your code base changes are. That is freaking terrifying.

Dan Bentley: Yeah. Yeah. And you know, it's something interesting, right? We're like, you fix a bug, but then, like, the bug is still in the historical source code because it's immutable. And so you have people, you know, you can say, Hey, you just have to sink to get the change. But, you know, in this case, it was just nothing worked at all that you can imagine that if, like, you had something in there where you know it when Every time you ran a unit test like uploaded too much data based on what was in your source control tree that you're having, though, I kind of run around and tell people, Hey, you need to sink because until you think you're like being a bad actor, you know, with respect, uploading data or whatever it is, right, like you end up in situation is where each developers laptop Larry is controlled just by that developer. Which means you could end up with kind of, ah distributed denial of service, that just fixing the config doesn't take because it's actually have to wait for each developer to me. That update.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, One of the cool things that I got to see when I was at it does both feet was when the team there decided it was time to finally, um, kind of organized the developer tools and the build, um, ready to go environments based on docker and extracting a little bit of away from the git code base and having less and less touch master until it was absolutely necessary. And I think that that was one of the things that I've learned a lot about in the last 10 years is a Since we moved from S P m to get and making things a lot easier to test because of the fact that we've got pools like Docker that we can execute, things are, you know, are spec for went for those weirdos like me, right, Ruby, and and the fact that we've built all these things to help us get it right The first time, I think is the biggest change that I've seen over the 10 years is a cream or organization create more communications. So when something gets committed that we have, you know, information and get hub with ah, commit messages and and and some sort of understanding where the problem starts and finishes. So I think that's a great part of where we are right now for for developers and then the ops teams that support them is that way. Like I said, I mentioned earlier when we were talking with people who I think you're getting better at communicating. No, they're They're hearing the screams. I think that came from the Dev ops movement of You have to talk to one another. You have to let each other know. And if it comes to making changes to like development environments that we need to check them all in, we need to talk about why this is happening and House can impact the other developer on the other side of the planet. And so I think that's a really interesting part about how we've changed, um, to think more about the person on the other side of the planet and what their impact's gonna be overall and how things you do and things. I do change a code base and it needs to be understood.

Dan Bentley: Yeah, when I think the relationship between a code base and you know the the system that it implies, which is both, you know? Hey, here's the's. Er, you know, binaries or deployments are, however, I want to think about it running in data centers, but also like here part of what the distributed system is. Actually, the people who are doing development of any kind that Yeah, how is tends to be geographically distributed or time zone distributed, like that's another living, breathing piece of the system.

Jay Gordon: Absolutely. So, um, if if someone right now is developed software development and they're working with on call teams and they're working with these types of complex environments, what as a developer, would you give other developers advice about when it comes to working with on call Resource is in being part of it. They may not be on call, but, you know, they need to be available to those resource is what kind of ice which you have for them.

Dan Bentley: Well, I mean, I think I think thinking of what kind of support and reliability do you want for your developer experience, Because, like, um uh, a time at Google, we had, like, priorities of bugs. So, like, yeah, P one was like, uh, money, you know, is being lost or, you know, we're giving out, you know, we're leaking data, right? That was, like the highest. But then some people were making the point of like, hey, if your If your tests are broken, you can't even, you know if the fix that you might want to that is reasonable. And so a broken test should be like a P zero And then, like if you have a broken build, you can't even know if the test is working. So that's like P negative one. And if you're you know, like you think I'm just keep coming up with scenarios that go kiw higher and higher up into the negatives. And so, like, I think something to think about is like, hey, your developer experience keeping like does it need to be on call? And, you know, it might not need to be on call in the same way, right? But like, I don't know, I like I've seen companies have a slack support channel, right or something. But what happens when you come in in the morning and like, sure, maybe you can like Kuba Kotal or whatever way you talk to your cluster. But if you if you're having a problem, actually, you know, building the binary that could fix some problem. You know, you can can see what's wrong. But if you need to deploy a code fix and the developer experience is broken. What happens then? And so I may not like. Here's what I'd suggest you adopt, but just like think about that. And like, you know, maybe the answer is yeah, it is kind of business. Our And if it's anything more, if it's some kind of catastrophe, then want to, like, go start calling people until we can find the right person and sort of formalized on caramel. But like, you know, that's that's a form of on call. That's a choice that you might be making implicitly. It's work, you know, knowing that

Jay Gordon: Absolutely. So tell me a little bit about what you're doing with Tilt and Whitman. Yeah, about that, I know. But I want the rest of the listeners to know a little bit more about what you're up to lately.

Dan Bentley: Yeah, yes. Oh, thinks I mentioned that at Google. Like benefit of the Monitor Repo was that you could build anything right? It's the same tooling to build Gmail as it is to build search and like that's conceptually pretty cool, especially in light of like Google's idea of 20% time. Hey, I have some idea for auto. You know, I I think that Jimmy l should behave differently. I can get going with it with the same tool. Great. That sounds really amazing. And it is in lots of ways. But what I realize now is that if you actually tried to do that, yeah, you could build the Gmail binary using blaze or basil. If you actually want to, like, run Gmail, you achieve off to, like, see what it's like. It's not just running one binary. It's running this back end and not storage service and this'll front end. And so you you wouldn't be able to use one tool anymore. You'd have to go see some wiki page or some shell script that would end up starting each fine ery with different command line flags that were in different terminal windows. And you'd have to kind of keep the binaries up to date when, as you made changes to one service or another, and so tilt, which is, ah, trying to make it that when you come in in the morning on a distributed system or micro service is, you just run tilt up, and then you have that instance of your whole app running tied to your hard drive so that it's a simple as really again running one tool. You just run tilt up. You make changes in your whole distributed system. Stays up to date.

Jay Gordon: Makes sense to me. It sounds really useful. Well, how can people get in touch with the dan if they need to To get more information about this or what you're doing with till?

Dan Bentley: Yeah, Yeah, I'm on Twitter at Di Bentley. Um, tilt tilt dot Dev. Um, Dan at tilt dot Deb, we're in the kubernetes tilts really built for systems with kubernetes. If you use kubernetes for production unit tilt for Dev's. So in that kubernetes slack, there's a tilt channel were hanging out in there and Ah, yeah, Well, um yeah. You know my name. Real loud and mean hearing range. Yeah. It

Jay Gordon: feels like that's what I did on Twitter to get you on this episode. So I know it works. You see everybody. If you follow his system of yellows name, he will hear you. Uh, Dan, thank you so much for give me some of your time today. I really

Dan Bentley: do appreciate It was great to trap cheers

Jay Gordon: and like Dan said, If you want to check out what he's doing, I believe it's till got death. Ah, windmill dot Engineering, I believe, is the other girl.

Dan Bentley: Yeah, it now redirects. Branding is tough, especially for start up. So, like windmills kind of the company, but the tools tilt like tilting at windmills. Like I said, I really have a bee in my bonnet about Dev tools.

Jay Gordon: Gotcha. Well, thank you so much, and we'll be right back. Well, wrapped everything up. And, uh, we'll hopefully see you soon at another really great event here in New York City. So, uh, catch you soon, Dan. Thank you very much. Thanks. That's it for this week. I appreciate your time and all the things you had offer for us, Dan. Or really thank you for being part of this podcast. And if you would like to be on the podcast really easy, send an email to on call Nightmare's at gmail dot com. Reach out on Twitter at long call Nightmare. Or more than anything, I just just keep listening to the podcast, because without you listening to it, there's no reason for me to keep doing it. So I'll catch you next time when I have another conversation with a technologist who spent time on. C
