
Jay Gordon: you're listening to the Uncle Nightmares podcast, and every week I bring you conversations, the technologists who spent time on call and this week I bring someone that I work with the tongue. When I was working in advocacy at MongoDB His name is Mike Grayson. My Grayson is a senior database engineer specialising de Bob's Mongo be an Apache Kafka beast systems out of Rochester. He's a Mongo TV master, and he's a speaker in the Oracle SQL as Mangal Beach communities. Really smart guy, very, very wonderful that I got a chance to speak with him. We haven't really spoken in quite a while. And, of course, Mike is doing interesting stuff. So I wanted to give him a chance to tell his story like you can tell yours. And let's just remind you that it's always easy to be on this podcast. And when I say it's easy, all really means is let's, um, let's get you on, And how do we do that? All you have to do is send me an email. It will go to on call nightmares at gmail dot com or reach out on Twitter. It's really easy. I'm at on call Nightmare or at jaydestro. So let's go ahead and get into the conversation with Mike and, uh, get into another nightmare. You're listening to the on call nightmares podcast. In every week, I bring your conversations with technologists who have spent time on call. And this week I'm speaking with Mike Grayson. And my Grayson is a senior database engineer who specializes in Dev ops Mongo D. B in Apache, Kafka based out of Rochester. And you know, he's a manga, the master and speaker, someone that I got to work with a little bit when I worked over at MongoDB dd myself. Welcome, Mike. Thank you very much for joining me.

Mike Grayson: Thanks, Jay, for having me really looking forward to this. Yeah, as you mentioned, I do a lot, um, with Mongo, um, with Kafka on the Dev ops community. But, um, I think it be cool just to talk a little bit about well, where I started as well. I mean,

Jay Gordon: yeah, that's great. Let's let's let's get into it. Let's talk about you. All right. So before we do that, we'll pull up the old flux capacitor we'll find when we started, but just a little anecdote. Uh, Mike and I spent a little time when I worked for DP. It did some great talks over at a manga tbe world. And really, um I thought was able to put a great topspin on what people are doing with databases right now. And it's whack. I'm asked Mike to be on because I think that we don't talk enough about databases in the world of Dev ops. So thanks a lot for being part of this, but let's get started. Um, you you started in school out in the Philadelphia area. Is that right?

Mike Grayson: Yeah. Yeah. Born and raised. So certain words you'll be able to tell right away. But I'm Yeah, I grew up in Philly. I went to school in Philly, moved up here to Rochester, but, uh, down in Philly as kind where I got my start in tech, Um, in a pretty traditional way. For for some of us on the offside. Who? A help desk. Um, started at the University of Pennsylvania Health Desk. Um, when I was a TA direction before college on, then went to Jackson University on dhe, kind of joining their help desk chair and I think from an outside perspective that teaches you a lot of the, um a lot of the tables, state table stakes, things you kind of gotta know how to deal.

Jay Gordon: People write exactly people, especially college students in, And, um, and professors and people

Mike Grayson: that Yes, I was gonna say the students that the students are actually east, dear, it's It's the phD professors who kind of that you are ready for for challenging personalities and in the work world.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, I can see where that that would definitely happen because you know, the world off education and academia tends to draw as many interesting personalities. Is that technology you do, Drexel, uh, graduate. And then eventually, you get yourself a job, a paycheck, What we're doing there.

Mike Grayson: That's so basically, when I graduated, I had a choice to make um, try and find this is around 2005 s so after the dot com bubble before the processions. Oh, but still, the jobs weren't too plentiful. And, um, my wife is originally from the Rochester area. Basically, I had a job offer in Philly and Rochester. Cost Levin's may lead cheaper. Appear so that up to here up Here we came, Esso. And, um, that was an interesting That's it. It's not knowing her company, but it it's a it's a telecom company. So

Jay Gordon: it could be

Mike Grayson: I like to equate that with, um growing up. I don't know if this is the appropriate term enough that growing up tech poor because with telecom companies, they're usually cash strapped. You kind of have to learn how to make things go farther. I'm so that was I think, looking back, that was kind of a good first. Um, I guess like a better term enterprise job tohave enterprise, my t job to have because you kind of learn what? How to bootstrap stuff and how to keep how to keep or how to do more with less.

Jay Gordon: Gotcha. So you move forward a few years overto a pretty big place at Thompson Reuters, and you start working with what I would imagine. It is a lot more data because of the actual you know what they do, which is they're constantly putting out stories and ensuring that that information is always available to the world.

Mike Grayson: Exactly. So that's kind of where I feel like I got introduced to doing things that scale like a true scale. Um, not only from a database perspective, with everything they didn't. They was kind of when I worked. There was kind of at the kind of the dawn of the dead bots movement, the infrastructures code. All that was kind of just starting to come to fruition and had probably been in the Googles and Amazons for a couple of years by then but hadn't got branched out too much. Got you know how. But that's kind of where we learned, like, Hey, I have to do this upgraded. I have to do it for 10,000 databases. Okay, well, yeah, obviously the economies of scale don't work. They're not gonna have DBS doing upgrades for weeks at a time. 24 by seven. That's kind of what we started to get into the automation minds. That and all those things. Um, and that's also where I started to branch off. Up until Thompson Reuters. I had been pretty much exclusively an oracle, D d a. Thompson's where I kind of branched out. Not just from not just on other databases, but also other technologies there. Database ish, um, the messaging platforms things of that nature. That's very

Jay Gordon: cool. So then, um, you stay there and then eventually you make it over two paychecks where you're at now. Yeah. So let's Let's we've got a full kind of look. Which was the 1st 1 You say you you started working on call

Mike Grayson: on first on call would have been my first. So at paycheck actually had a couple of different positions. I started as a stuff where? Engineer? Well, all right. No, I started first as a doing help desk there. That was kind of an actual James. I should've helped us to help us. Um, did that for a couple years. Then I went to more of a software engineering, more developer type role in that role. I kind of found the problems that I was most interested in working with always ended up going back to the database like it was doing this for that. O. R. This isn't working because we're not considering this part of the database. And that's when I evolved into a V B a role at attack, which is the 1st 1st on call experience for me. Um, and pretty even, for a smaller tell a smaller local telecom do that. They're still the stories. Of course they're of the late night calls on Doll that

Jay Gordon: you're consistently so with that, let's get into something that I like to call the rules because I'd like to hear one. You're interesting stories from Long called before you. You get us that I want to hear a little bit. I would like Teoh at least share the rules and the rules of pretty simple. There are only three of them because that's his high, as I can count. Uh, now that there's three rules and trying to make it really simple for this podcast. One. Do not incriminate yourself because I do not want you to get in any trouble because I like you. You're a nice guy on my podcast, too. Let's not incriminate others because what we do is blameless when we talk about Dev ops, perspectives and help us learn because this podcast is a retrospective. And with that, I'd like you to kind of give us a story about ah, pretty nasty own call situation and how you kind of got so here you go.

Mike Grayson: So the incident itself isn't a less spectacularly they gotta know when some of your other ones they've had some pretty interesting scenarios. But, um, I think what with mine, it's more where was at the time when I was dealing with it. Like, I know people have said that they've been at weddings or been doing this or that when it got called and buying was actually and this is actually a couple days after I met you for the first time was at, um, Mom had to be like a lot of major companies has a customer advisory board. Um, so I was fortunate enough to be selected to go to that, um, that particular year. So I'm in with a lot of the high, obviously. All the higher upset Mongo D B. A lot of other companies that send people there also are sending their CEOs or directors and something in here. I am just eight student database engineer, Um uh, at that. But, um, so the place, eh? So that the issue was basically we had an issue at I did out of data center. We were pretty much minutes from having to shut data center down, like, Okay, you gotta get things up moved over. Um, because this thing's going off because of the issue that we have, uh,

Jay Gordon: was did, like was became unavailable for the application that you needed.

Mike Grayson: So this was this was very close to a home data center outage. So, um, and I'm keeping my words careful to follow the rules here, So we pretty much have, like, this five minute warning start failing databases over. I'm sitting the meeting because you're oblivious to this because obviously, I'm I'm being there now at at the customer advisory board on and then I get, like, a attacks on my phone like, um, issues at the data center. Um, can you help? So I have to break out my computer with with the video Syria Pretty sitting right across from me on Elliot next to him. I'm where I'm basically communicating with the team back there, saying, OK, this is how it's gonna impact. They're asking us to stick with the, uh, mongo at the time, which, as you know, would have failed over on its own anyway. But that's besides the point. But some of the feelings there, So it wasn't so if it wasn't that the incident self again. Wasn't that interesting? It was kind of the reactions of people to it, Um, and then the people who took leadership during the time, You know, so mean. But so I think, I think kind of. And getting back to your mantra, even from them from the rules, is kind of like Let's not assign blame. Let's not Let's not do any of that. Let's just work together to fix the issue.

Jay Gordon: Sure. So what was causing initially the data center outage was there kind of, ah, cascading failure that ended up impacting your databases That should work with. And obviously you're in, you know, several hours from home. You're not in a normal situation Through used to issue out of your comfort zone to write, right, Tell me, kind of Wait, where's the problem at this point?

Mike Grayson: So the problem was basically that the Fire Department had said we need to shut the electricity off to this building in five minutes, whether you've gracefully moved things out of the state of center or not.

Jay Gordon: And this is in Rochester or where is your date? Is that they're located at this point?

Mike Grayson: Um, yeah, in the Rochester area.

Jay Gordon: Okay. So then you're And I would imagine, during a massive incident, they would expect you to be there to be able to do so for of onsite database recovery. Because I've been in that situation where with data pieces on. And I think, you know, we've all seen this. For those of us who work at ops databases, recovery doesn't always go a simple as turn the machine back on, right. And And if your ups eventually dies, you know, you're dealing with a lot more than just having to recycle power on the machine. You're working with the potential of corrupt databases. All right. Locks that were left open pit files that were left in directories for Linux servers are any ight. So, you know, I kind of get where you're at at this point and especially the fact that you're not near there. Right? So you're in New York, you're sitting next to the mongo people. I'm probably on the other side of the office, growing our own pretzels down. Michael, it, uh, you You're in this room, obviously with this less than five minute warning at this point, right? What? What? Do you do it? What do you in the team, I should say, because you're not obviously not alone in this situation. Are you

Mike Grayson: right? Exactly. Know I'm not alone. Unfortunately, Ever promised everyone else was in the office or kind of aware triaging getting things flipped over. Um, as best as best it could if this sort of kindness as we had. Um, so it was It was it was kind of pretty cool to watch it from afar, you know, because again, my portion at that time was solely mongo, which would have failed over on its own. So it was kind of reassuring the team that if this happens and anything's primary out there, it's gonna go. Really decided that was having to do anything. Let's focus on the database is that we don't have that luxury with Sure. So But it was It was definitely interesting. Kind of see the people who kind of stepped up and and all that stuff. So, um

Jay Gordon: so where do we go next? After this? So, um, what's recovery like in this situation?

Mike Grayson: So the funny part of this is so we have that five minute warning we switch over, um, all of our critical databases that were based on that data center to another data center. Um, and then they basically resolved the issue. Don't have to turn off the power. Who's a defective data center? Um, well, still, we've already migrated Our we've already transferred stuff over the other data center. So?

Jay Gordon: So the incident never actually occurred. It was a, ah, false alarm that you had to do all this on correct.

Mike Grayson: There was a natural issue, but the issue got resolved before they had to kind of turn off the power. So but yeah, it was, though, the flat flash forward a couple of weeks. We have to basically do a plans cut back then to what was almost the effective data center. So it's kind, of course, with with that they can be. When you flip over to data centers, you've quickly find out what technical debt and what configuration drift you have. Um, because you I'm well, we we have a much better I'll say d our plan now because of it. Not to say we didn't have one then, but it obviously needed work so that

Jay Gordon: you learn about how much your d our plan. I think that this is a really great thing that we can kind of get into. Yeah, and maybe we'll talk about this towards the end. But one of the things that I really learned is that your d our plan is good as that one time, you weren't planning to execute it. And it sounds like this was that one time you weren't really planning on executing it. You had to just Andi, I like to talk about this, but you have to pivot. Yeah. Now you pivot, and you probably run into a few trips on going ahead and returning everything back to the primary database right at that data center. But what would you say? You probably learned the most out of that whole incident.

Mike Grayson: A sz far as what we learn. What? You know what I learned the most? I would have to say It's, um actually a couple of things. It's test your dear plan. Um, test it and test it. Not not just in going through the procedure, going through a graceful shutdown. Sure, that's gonna work in the 19 times of the time. This is where I think things like chaos monkey and those things that you should confer that into your dear plan. Yeah, that's fun. Um, so we've kind of we kind of learned those lessons, Basically test it again. Don't, um if you come at it from from a blameless perspective, I think a lot more honest discussions will happen. Um, were you being kept? Were not just what were multiple people can have learnings. It's not just a one person thing. The whole team, the whole team, as an organization can kind of grow and learn from it, so that

Jay Gordon: that makes sense. Well, let's talk a little bit about, um, you know, what do you think you're doing nowadays with your arm call scenarios that are really ensuring that, you know, you're always maintaining that availability. You expect, Like there any changes that since this kind of incident that you can say the company or your team for that matters like, kind of implemented to help improve availability.

Mike Grayson: Yeah, I think speaking from from work from where I am now, the infrastructure using infrastructures code, relying more on automation, those types, things kind of help, um, eliminate some of the technical debt and the configuration drift. He was stopped at a star for ways to go, as do a lot of a lot of places. But, um, it's certainly making things better. Absolutely. Um, before, before I worked here, people would basically take the day off if they had if they had on call, because they do. They're gonna be up all night. And now we don't have that anymore. With a lot of a lot of efforts going into both automation, downshifting all all those things. Oh, it's been good. It's getting better for sensible.

Jay Gordon: That's great. Well, if you could give somebody a piece of advice, Mike, uh, if their own call right now, what do you think it would be?

Mike Grayson: I don't know if this is so. I don't know if this is a larger tech problem or if this is just but this is I work. But I think being reluctant to reach out or to ask questions when you're on call. I've seen a lot of people like hesitate to ask a question if they know a change or something's going on that night and they didn't have a question like, Well, what should I know about this going into it? Um, I think being more proactive kind of trying to understand what's going on going on in the environment. Um, And then, if you don't know, reach out like don't. I don't have to hesitate. I know some people who do that, too. And then But then if he has a take too long, then you're in a position where it's it could be worse than, um so yeah, I say don't be afraid to Michel. And if you're the only person on call and you don't have that luxury that some of us have just, um, just kind of work work towards the work towards automation, then making making your own that makes your own life easier on

Jay Gordon: the eyes. Yeah, I found that a lot of issues can be either resolved by either one finding if you've got over, um, oversubscribed alerts that keep awake and and busy, or to find out if he alerts you have not are not necessarily overseas. Krupp oversubscribed, but maybe are not really relevant to what you you need. Um, and I've said at this conversation with a lot of people, but, you know, we do tests some linen servers from memory, but we forget that we want Lennox to use up all that memory. We wanted to run 10 and start paying using page files. But we certainly wanted to use as much of that memory is possible in cash it so that it could go back and get things from cash so that you're coming from. And I think you've been doing some great stuff, and I know that Ah, lot of people who are listening to this probably really appreciate that they're gonna get paid on Friday or the next Friday after that or the first and 15 and the role that you take in that is really important. So, um, thank you for making sure people get paid. And if if people want to get in touch to talk more to you, what's the best way they can find you?

Mike Grayson: Yeah. So, um, I do post on Twitter under, um, at my gray 831 I'm also have a block. Um, Mongo. Mike blogged. I don't spoke about Mongo. There are other things in the world on my favorite databases. What about that? I do like to block out azure as well, huh?

Jay Gordon: Way are a pretty neutral podcast, but I appreciate you mentioned. Hey, wait. Being part of the podcast today, it was really good having you on. Um and like Mike said, if you'd like to find him on Twitter is at Mike G R A. Why 8 31 and if you could really, um, doom or with what you've already done in this community, I'd be shocked because you've done a lot for the MongoDB last few years. I've seen it, and I just wanted to thank you and just thank you for being part of this conversation on letting his capture your story.

Mike Grayson: No, thanks for having me really been awesome.

Jay Gordon: Cool. So we'll be right back to wrap up this week's episode off on call nightmares. Thanks, Mike. Thanks. Well, that's it for this week. Thanks a lot for your time, Mike. I really do appreciate it. You've been a great person to work with and alongside in that community and really feel that you're doing some interesting stuff with trying to help his many people as you can get paid. It's a pretty cool thing, huh? Anyway, if you'd like to do what might just did an interview with us here at on-call nightmares. Really, Really easy. Just go ahead and send email to Uncle nightmares, gmail dot com or feel free to 78 p m. On Twitter or not. Whatever you want at on, call my bear. Or at best so we'll see you next week where I have another conversation with technologist instead. Common. Call me that.
