Jay Gordon: you're listening to the On-Nightmares podcast in every week me, this big jerk, J I bring you conversations with technologists who have spent time on call that I'm actually sitting in the speaker's room and I want to apologize to Jennifer Davis because we are interrupting her as she's prepping for her talk later in the day. But I'm sitting with some other people at this table who's here with me. Jason Hey, Matt, And to have been on before one will be on in the future. People that minutes Yes, Once again, I am back with another conversation with a technologist, and I really do enjoy coming to these Dev ops days, and I think one of the big parts that makes it worth my time. And I think a lot of others is the people you get to spend your time with during the day. Whether you're an attendee or your speaker, you're meeting people and personalities and just it's an incredible time. I met both Jason. I met Jennifer and I met Matt, and now I've met you, Terry, through this community and, you know, I can say you met. You've given me a lot to kind of do what I'm doing now. It is. So I want to thank you. You're welcome. And you did a great job on your talk. All the talks from this conference were recorded. So if you have not gotten a chance to see them on the live stream, they'll be up online. And, Jason, you're one of the organizers here. And I know you've been like I do in New York breaking your butt to make sure that this is the best damn conference PX could have. Yeah, awesome. So that eyes a man of small and simple words. And that's fine because he's also the man that make sure we have whiskey. And I appreciate that. Jason, there's whiskey. So anyhow, I want to get into this week's conversation with Gene Kim. You know, I've been really lucky doing this podcast. We've spoken to some of the most brilliant minds in, uh, I t take Dev ops technology. You name it and me. Oh, yeah. And on. And Gene, I think is kind of my top of the mountain lately because from what I've read of his and seeing a lot of his talks, he's been a huge inspiration to myself. The Phoenix project is a book I think, actually, really was a big influence on me starting this podcast because I believe in the power of storytelling. And if you read the Phoenix project, it's a story. It's a piece of fiction, but it's extremely relatable to anyone who spent time on call and monitoring in systems work or just having to do a deploy. Um, it's it's a nightmare. And I think Gene and his co authors really got it out there and did it well, So he's got a new book coming out very soon is called The Unicorn Project, and we talk a little bit about that and a ton more. But before we get into the interview, you could be on this podcast. It's really easy to send an email to on call nightmares at gmail dot com or just reach out on Twitter at on Call Nightmare or at J. Destro. So with that being said, let's get into this week's interview with Gene Kim. You're listening to the on call nightmares podcast. Every week I bring you conversations with technologists who have spent time on call, and this week I'm actually out in Portland. It's the first hom it ever made it to Portland, Oregon. And one of the things that excited me was coming to devotees. Portland, I got an opportunity speak. But more than anything, I got an opportunity to see this gentleman speak and also to have this conversation with him now. So I'd like to welcome to the podcast thing. Author of the Phoenix project and so many other important things. And I think Dev Ops in General Gene Kim. Thank you, Jean.

Gene Kim: Great to be here and not good to finally meet in person.

Jay Gordon: Thank you. One of the great things about doing this podcast is I believe everyone that I really have always wanted to pick their brains. I actually have a reason to beyond just I like what you d'oh. Now I just have this ability to say Here is a subject that I know that you have been in the shit for Let's hear a little bit about it. So a brief introduction to your the beginning of your career is really what? Where I kind of get started as I do this for everybody on and what you've done. It's fairly prolific and I know that, but there could be someone who's like, Who's this Jean guy? So, ji. And you've You've been in technology for 2030 years now.

Gene Kim: Yeah. In fact, maybe I'll give you my standard construction. But then, uh, how about I go back to how it got into technology and the confession I made tea, which is a man is about long time since I've been on call, but and resurrect some very curious memories. Uh, I definitely introduce myself by saying of the I've been studying high performing technology organization since 1999 and that was a journey started when I was a teacher and founder of a company called Trip Wire. And that was it.

Jay Gordon: Remember it quick. I worked in systems from around 2002 until about, I guess 2015. So trip wire, You know, very, very. I'm sure plenty of Lennox admissions and everyone else We're on the other side. They know exactly where you came from this forest trip, where you see a lot of our butts.

Gene Kim: I tell you, like, where's your part came from? And before that, the family in that story of high performance to stay high performers, which start off a security operation and eventually to development into Dev ops. Uh, that's where I had the opportunity to study these exemplars. And so my confession is I was terrible at operations. I, uh So I started off in technology in 1986 when I was hired out of high school to do part time Q and sys admin, Sun Microsystems. And, uh, I was the person who is testing the, um, uh, all the system called for the son of us. Colonel and I learned that through testing it on, not on remote file systems. I was a person who is actually taking down the manifest box where all the source code repositories Still

Jay Gordon: very early chaos, engineering being fried. So the first thing was repeatedly

Gene Kim: am grinding, you know, by 40 60 developers from doing the daily work.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, and so I guess that's like a really early intro until, like, the way on call could be very, very noisy. I suppose so. Yeah. In fact, I'm

Gene Kim: and I wasn't. Yeah, so I I was a person is actually causing my, uh, my own problems. Then, uh, then I was working for the computing center at Purdue University. And I was. I had the opportunity to work for Dr Gene Stafford, and the reason why I wanted to do was because around 1987 that was a famous Morris worm that took down. They're only 10,000 servers on the Internet. The time I think 10% of them were taking down on. So does no more prolific researcher than Dr James Baffert. So that's why I went there. And I think, had I known that there was actually in the cornfields of Indiana, I would have made up maybe, like, thought it through a

Jay Gordon: little bit more,

Gene Kim: but it was amazing. I worked for the computing center there, and, uh, and doing some research. I learned. I remember coming into my manager's office and I said, Jean, something strange happened over the weekend. For the first time in the history of the computing center, the data center ran out back up tapes because someone touched every file. Would you happen to know anything about

Jay Gordon: that? I had a horrible, horrible feeling

Gene Kim: that there was after this Perl script I was running. Thio tried to look for duplicate

Jay Gordon: in the five signatures. It's funny. Um, I had Mike's danke over recently. Last week I was out in Chicago and we were talking, and he told me almost a similar, like he was fixing a thing. So during the fixing, the thing he runs the, uh the what you called runs a spastic rip that eventually starts leading a thing. Shit, I deleted everything, huh? I mean, these are the things that I think we learned from and grow from, its those mistakes that you make along the way that make us who we are.

Gene Kim: In fact, I mean, in this case, that was very true because that was my last day at the computer.

Jay Gordon: I

Gene Kim: ended up getting an infant study with that inspector. That's where I have to get the time to write Trip Wired Noah. Many years after that, I was the world's worst D B A, you know, supporting an online game. And, uh, I was I was terrible at it. And yeah, I think that's actually when I, uh in this cast of high performers to see the people running world class operating, I mean, this was like, near stock change, Very signed. Uh, you know, some of the largest computer properties on the plan At the time. They were so methodical they thought things through so well and my immediate like how some of the best security people thought about like, Oh, if here's a risk, here's how we prevented Here's how we detected corrected Katie. It was wrong. I just, uh I was never wired to think like that, but I could certainly admire it that that really became my area of study. It comes from a profound place of, uh, admission that, yeah, this is something that I can study and maybe write about, but I am fundamentally and a seemingly inherently incapable that you do it myself.

Jay Gordon: Sure. And what did they say? That people who can't do teach? Yeah, on. And so I think that that's the thing is that way. Go through a career off finding Arny Schorr. There are little wherever it is that place that we could move the fastest down because we can either reach them the right amount of people people, or we find a thing that answers the question. It's really interesting. It's actually why I got the developer advocacy because in the end that that ability to have reach and to say, Did somebody like Look, I'm not doing this right now, but I certainly know how to and I want you to do it so that you don't make the big friggin mistakes I did. In fact, I think that's what's

Gene Kim: so interesting about the Dev ops community and especially upstate, Uh, I have not gone to as many as John Willis. Uh, anything. He's on 40 something.

Jay Gordon: He's got the gold circle. Yeah, something like that.

Gene Kim: I, uh I was kind of half assed many. And now when I look back at where one of the most it really has been at conferences that Devil says, I love us saying, You know, you're only as good as you know, the top five people you hang out with and it's never been easier to learn. And I've been a personal beneficiary, the best in the game, uh, sharing the stories and teaching other people. I mean, I think that is something genuinely new. Certainly I didn't if it were around 20 years ago, I was not a participant or had not seen that.

Jay Gordon: And a lot of people I remember kind of when I first came in around 2000 you know, meeting people to share it was more about Here is a CD with Lennox on it. Good luck on. And that was the way the community was because it was kind of created by people who were standoffish. And now it is. We're really lucky that this community has looked at one another as helpers, not people who want to take your lunch. I mean, there's a really, really big company that has a big conference every year where everyone finds out how their lunches getting taken, but we won't talk about it. But a ce faras I think individuals, um, way don't really wanna We don't want to throw each other in the bus. We really want to help. And that's the one thing I've learned by talking to people about stories, and that leaves me kind. We're gonna go next.

Gene Kim: And by that I mean, I think there's even something more profound happening in the fact that today we're listening to talks from, we're gonna hear from a strand of hair from a whole bunch of people who are really, in my mind, helping make the teachings of John all spot on the safety culture community. Understandable.

Jay Gordon: And Andy Fleener, who's hot cast before great. And he really comes up with a really good idea about being a humanist and humanizing the work that we do in operations and systems or even just straight up dev ops. And if you want to call it that and the idea that you know there needs to be more than thought off, how does a thing stay up? Yep. How do we do these things? There needs to be more fault, put into it. And there needs to be the idea of people are a part of this process. And if I feel like you really stated it well, people, you know, you don't want to put Brent's in the place, you don't have the bus factor, and that leads me a little bit to where we're going. So this I

Gene Kim: further and I think, matching 10 years. Everyone will understand this, and I think we'll be through the works of people like Maddie and Andy who are taking the spot of knowledge and making it more accessible to everybody else, right, because not all of us can read the papers and dissertations of, uh, the work, the great work coming in this community. But if someone eventually has to make it so that your, um that the rest of us can actually

Jay Gordon: I know how to deploy think about Alice's recent blawg post about how to become an S R E. And I felt like that was one of those things that was produced out of, like, that devil obsessed sorry community that it was her saying, This is exactly what I did, and you can do it, too. But this is just the path that we have to take in order to get that right. So that being said, I want to get into the rules of the podcast, there are only three very, very simple, and they're there just to make me have a little bit of control over what we do. So one, we don't incriminate you. You don't incriminate yourself. If something went down, you don't want to deal with it. You don't talk about it, but give some hints. Don't incriminate others because the biggest thing that we've all learned in the last few years is that we are blameless in our retrospectives and help us learn That's the third rule, because this podcast is a retrospective. So you have been part of building company ah, company like trip wire. And I would imagine going from so someone who's just going from a technical portion to building a holistic, full business, you had to be on call for a little bit different than the server's down. As curious. You had kind of a story about that type of situation where you was someone who had to think about a top down

Gene Kim: kind of situation. Yeah, I was. I didn't think through the early days of building a product on so far, But you know it in some ways, you know, that was I was there from 1997 to the year 2013 years, and I think softer was a different game then, right? I mean, now you pressed a Gold Master CD, you shipped it thio customers, and they would deploy at their discretion. And, you know, I think often that any commercial vendor right at the big No. One big challenges like how do you get them to upgrade? And it's a very convenient thing for a softer vendor to be ableto systems That is not my problem. Yeah, um, so in many ways, that was buffered from that, But I did love like how Tripp was being used to help in incident response scenarios, right with security or operations. But I'll tell you one of the the stories that really stood out to me and tell me if this is too far off base, but it was actually watching. Um, this is 2007 watching a customer use our product. And it was probably the one of the worst professional moments of my career. I really felt like I was going to throw up.

Jay Gordon: So you're really time on call. So incredible. Okay, so you're probably in some sort of like, Was this a meeting where the customers kind of getting getting ahold of trip wire and saying all right, Yeah, we were actually

Gene Kim: you're asking, You know what the daily work looked like? And, uh, there's a certain can report that we expect him thio run, You know, once a week and it would take them 62 clicks, and the whole time they're apologizing on it. Just, uh, the whole apology because they're like, Oh, I'm sure this is because of a better. There's a better way to do this. I just haven't read the docks.

Jay Gordon: And meanwhile, you're sitting there. There isn't a better way. Holy ground, like there isn't because

Gene Kim: we're terrible people. I think the modern U ex way of saying that is that this is what happens when developers, um, exposed the implementation model for the implementation drives the user experience. And, uh, you know, to go through that for three hours was initially you can only feel like they're in it for so long, but it was it was terrible. It was, uh I think many people who have gone through something similar that will feel this where But you feel remorse, you feel regret. You feel incredibly apologetic. And in that moment and bubbling, Shofar has improved

Jay Gordon: so much since then and now they have solved all these problems. Back back

Gene Kim: in 2007 I mean, what came? I loved out of it. Well, I suddenly understood why the trip Our admin was often given the most junior person because it meant light. Whenever someone new started, they would just give it to the new person.

Jay Gordon: It was either a because I've been in positions where, like giving the new person was like Deanna on Why do we give the person? Because it's always something that no one really knows what's going on. But it should be easy because it's just entering something. But there's always a mistake and some little fat fingers or not commit something correctly, and I get it.

Gene Kim: And, uh oh, and this cement that right? Because when you talk about the global infrastructure change right, it doesn't get more global than D. N S s. Oh, it's curious how we kind of choose what to give a new person. But, you know, that did, uh, lied to formation of a team that had a tremendous sense of mission about how to atone for this.

Jay Gordon: It's about Maura, about customer experience and what they feel and see when they're using

Gene Kim: the problem. And we all got ourselves trained. You use experience design, and, uh uh, it was a subversive, rebellious effort. You know, Thio make room for the You know, in some ways, this is like a technical debt problem you're competing at. You know what I perceived as revenue generating features? And I think that was one of the first time when I think I was that challenged to push an idea through right, Because conceptually I think young people would, um, yeah, they're like, Oh, yeah, that's not a That's not a good thing.

Jay Gordon: But then, when

Gene Kim: you're asking people to make a trade off decisions that can do X that customers want versus, uh, why and so that was that began like a three year journey of hearts and minds campaign mobilizing customers to political pressure on sales, organization of marginalization to developers, right to really get

Jay Gordon: some entity, it sounds like just based. What you're saying is that there was a real retrospective in the company after the incident, if you will. If you were the person reporting the incident, which is you watch. This person used trip wire and you didn't feel like they got the best experience. So you're there, Onda almost like the incident commander. You're keeping notes on what's going in your brain, and I'm guessing that you go to the team and say, It's got change, and maybe next year thing I've learned is that now it is we don't get away with Next year is much. Nowadays, these retrospectives Comm part off the continuing process of developing the new features or correcting your technical debt?

Gene Kim: Yeah, and I think that some if I look back on that I mean, I think that really forced me to become a lot better. A lot better influence at I don't think there's any other initiative I pushed with so much almost like desperation and leveraging every relationship you know, I had. And I think with Urine Dev or ops. Uh uh whether you're in product, right, it is, Ah, achieve the mission often means that you are actually having Thio wage a rebellion against an ancient powerful order

Jay Gordon: is true. And that was a great part of, like a hearing, the way you kind of describe about how organizations really have to take on change. Andi, I think back to the book a lot of the Phoenix project and things that we want to talk a little bit about unicorn in a few minutes because I'm really excited. I got a preview copy, but it's gonna be what I read on my way home because I got that long flight back to New York. But the thing that I took from the book when I read it the first time was that change is possible. It's having the people to recognize that you need to implement change in an organization and to make sure that it's a it's a cultural thing. And I know we like to use culture a lot and technology, but I think that one of things I really learned from what you're writing and also from John in the last few years, John Willis is the fact that, um, one we need to collect stories from one another. We need to learn what went wrong in the process. So here's my question to you. How did you begin this, like, kind of storytelling thing that you've done over the last two years? To the point where, like, you're writing fiction as opposed to, you know, just writing technical manuals? How to avoid the probably

Gene Kim: The first book I wrote was called the Visuals Handbook on 2000 for about how to create a world class organizations through I tell you, it was laughable now.

Jay Gordon: But it was the thing, though, that we all had to follow No. Four. But you know

Gene Kim: what I loved about it is that it did create an order stating hair and standards. Just a common way of talking about the process is you need to run great operation. Sure. And so, you know, But I think it and modern from hindsight, we say that was definitely a safety. One book where the devil is definitely all about safety to to use the safety culture terminology. But what led to that book was struck in the habit of writing down things. I would hear meetings because either was

Jay Gordon: that awesome where I'm like Oh, my gosh, I have so great. More like I

Gene Kim: cannot believe I have to hurt.

Jay Gordon: Like that's

Gene Kim: okay until I gotta tell my buddy, right? Like what I just heard. Because most that acid I and creative they ever heard I did that. I remember taking notes on my Palm three pilot, right? And eventually my trio

Jay Gordon: and then my, uh, the black fairy 9 57 here and

Gene Kim: then, uh what? Ryan eventually iPhone. But they turn into a war dog. Can't describe inner, but what I found, it was, uh um I kept that file. I called that quote file that back when I went back to almost 2007 when I did, my aspirations was too right. Uh, the goal. But for i t the famous book The Goal by Dr Elliot Gold wrapped about manufacturing. I mean, it was just one of the most dazzling, most amazing influential books ever read. And, uh, you know, just, uh, friend, begin with my co authors, George Baffert. Kevin Barry. We're just like God would be great to read that book. And so, uh, um, the way the quote file came in handy, right with a kind of the whenever Wes was sort of character who always said note two things, right? So West

Jay Gordon: became the vehicle to say all the reasons that they

Gene Kim: know Patty was sort of the voice of reason and then kind of hero Bill was the voice of, like person trying to reason through the problem. And, um,

Jay Gordon: but the person I identified the most with his Brent Brent, and it's gotten to the point where, like, I've gone toe other devil upstairs and I've sat in open spaces were people talking about an organizational issues, and I said, Well, who here is a Brent and it Sometimes people know what I'm talking about, and sometimes people don't. But the people who know what I mean when I say Here's a Brent they raised their hands and it's always a cathartic thing to meet the other Brents. There's just so many people who have done the hard work with deployment in operations. And they've been that that stopgap also like and and so what I feel like you really helped do is to put into, ah, very simple context how a person becomes a real blocker. Yeah, as opposed to a facilitator. And that was one of the biggest things that I learned from that book is that as a technologist who's an icy and not necessarily part of the big plan, don't make yourself the thing that stops progress. Yeah,

Gene Kim: if any one of the most rewarding things, it is time being sucked up into the devil to pick one thing out of that was, uh, just how the Brent persona resonated with people. By the way, in the Fields project I was all based on a synthesis of real people with friends. Is the one character whose name didn't change is actually his name was was Brent. He was actually worked with Kevin Bear when my co authors and different was I mean, it was incredible. It was visionary. Brent saw the deployment problem before anyone else did. Brent had gone on vacation without a pager in two years. There was no incident that could be solved without present. No major activity could could happen without Brent, right? I mean, it was so you know, I think it's very, uh, it has been so interesting to see all the discussion now when people resonate with Brent. But also some discussion about now is is, uh, Brent doing that on purpose? No. Is Brent deliberately try Protect

Jay Gordon: his own job. Sleeveless eso, like the most interesting part of going from like that to thousands the end of two thousands, like the end of the Aughts into 2010 is that you saw the Brents slowly kind of eroding as the main person that everyone was going to and you started seeing teams on Guy, remember? I was a buzz feed for a while and we took on the spot. If I'm a method and we saw the embedding of engineers along with designers and things that were going to make teams more capable and less dependent on on and the person. I'm not gonna say what Israel named Roy. We're less dependent on Roy being the center of deployments. And it was obvious that Roy was obvious center of deployments. But the thing I've learned and like I said I appreciate was that if we connected and collected enough of those things that were done wrong and has some stories, then you can reflect on that and say, You know what? That's where we're missing and something really wrong happening

Gene Kim: here. And it's not good for the organization is certainly not good for Brent

Jay Gordon: s O. Now, Brent was a huge focus, but now you're calling ahead. You started. Ah, you're releasing a new book that's coming out in a few months. Like I said, I've got a copy that I'm gonna be reading. It's called the Unicorn Project, and it's kind of focusing on another particular character from the original story. When you tell me a little bit, I know you talked about during the talk. Yeah, I just want to hear you say it

Gene Kim: again, for sure. Uh, yeah. So the, um, three units are Project is essentially like the inter shadow of the Phoenix project. So it's, uh it's what the Venus Project told from ops perspective. The Unicorn Project really inspires to tell from the development side and had shared my talk how, for 20 years I very, very much self identified as an ob Spurs. And despite getting my graduate degree in compiler design and high speed networking because ops was what I found the most exciting, the most rewarding the most where all the action happened. And, uh, when I was a trip wire, right? Everyone thought I was crazy, right? Yeah, we're a security company. What are you doing hanging out with those ops people? Um and so three years ago, I learned disclosure functional program languages that runs on the J B M. And it's brought coat the joy of Cody back into my daily life s Oh, it's fine. How kind of my sort of way I think about myself has changed. And so the, uh, the goal of stories really too hush share the story of rebellion on Maura about this collaboration that happens with the main care Maxine on Branch, who are the core of this rebellion, right? That is seeking to overthrow the ancient powerful order. Um, and this is really modeled after the heroic stories that huh? I've seen, for now seven years of the deaf up center where you have these leaders and leaders means not just on the order tractable senior, but the technology leaders who know there's something deeply not working

Jay Gordon: with currently work. Think of like Rin Daniels. Ah, lot Rin Daniels, who wrote the book with Jennifer Davis. Oh, effective Dev ops. I think about that, like when Ryan was at, etc. Just the amount of work that, like John and I had to do to be able to build high scalable systems and making decisions on. We need to kick this out the window and go with this particular database. All those things. And I've heard a lot of that come from the death. Does world actually. Really? Look, I'm gonna go this year.

Gene Kim: It's what I love about it. Um, it's not just stories. It's stories with high stakes and high danger. Whatever always admired about these stories is that these are leaders who, definitely no. They have the best long term interest of the organization at heart. And then there are actually putting themselves in someone's grave personal jeopardy by breaking the rules. And, uh, you know, sometimes it works. Sometimes it doesn't, but I think that is I mean, I think that is transformational leadership that the State of Dev ops report really shows is that now those are when someone is really focused on the mission more than the rules of something that is what's needed to for survival.

Jay Gordon: Here's to the crazy ones if you will go and it's interesting because, you know, we have that style of management that's more like How do you get it done as opposed to How do you protect yourself? Yeah, and I think that that's one of the more intriguing and wonderful parts about technology. Now, is this a far less How do I keep myself hired and farm? Or how do I keep the product or the project or what? I'm working on it moving forward so that I grow with

Gene Kim: it. Yeah, I think, uh, in my mind, uh, yeah, it does come into the story in my head for the beginning. For ALS, three years is could have been red shirts from Star Trek. So

Jay Gordon: these people not at the highest level.

Gene Kim: York tried these people on the ground doing the work, right? Um, that's the wretched from Star Trek. A team Hogan's Heroes and had meant to the movie Brazil. I love that movie. Just because the number one fugitive is the rogue air conditioner repairman who breaks into people's apartments, fixes their air conditioning because Central Service is will do it. So

Jay Gordon: now instead

Gene Kim: of the number 11 fugitive, I think that's no, that's the That's the rebellious spirit of like, you know,

Jay Gordon: these stories. You go out of your way to do good and have good intentions, and sometimes people don't understand it. Ready first, insurance

Gene Kim: something you activate, the entire immune system, right? And so present of, like some savviness to be able to navigate those waters and call in the favors and have the foresight to put in the favors right that they're now calling upon, um And so uh uh, so that's the, uh, I think of like things product. That was, um, story from kind of the junior officers to the bridge crew. Sure, this is really about the records in the engine room, you know, actually, if it weren't for them. You know, the hero achievements of the future projects certainly would have happened.

Jay Gordon: Things would have gone bad with dilithium crystals. Yeah. Who knows about the lithium crystals, Brent? Exactly. So I want to wrap up. Thank you again for being part of this podcast. And before we wrap up, there's one thing I always ask if you could give someone who's on call a piece of advice right now, based on your years of experience and what you've gained from higher performing environments, Um, and learned what's a piece of advice? You give someone

Gene Kim: on call right now? Oh, yeah. I've always mentioned beginning, right. You're only as good as the top five people you hang out with, um, and, ah, and kind of other principle. Is there no new solutions on Lee? New solutions between two different problem domains. So yeah, the the piece of advice I would have kind of dresses both, which is shadow people you admire. No

Jay Gordon: one will say no to that. All right. To say, I just want to follow you around for a day. Tremendous advice,

Gene Kim: and I just I can tell you I can't tell how many learnings and stores have come from just the ability and the gift that was given to me. You have just said something. Yes. And so And as many domains you can on. Of course, Then, uh, to repay the favor by fixing the problems that you see right, And you will make friends on, uh, you'll create a network

Jay Gordon: that wants people to think these will be the people who will

Gene Kim: help you in every endeavor for the rest of your life. Great.

Jay Gordon: Well, thank you so much for being part of this today. I really thank you for your time. I know people always want to talk to you because you got a lot of really amazing things to say. So while we're here today, I just felt like it was great to be able to sit down and say you've really influenced a lot of the stuff I've looked to do. So thank you for all the work you've

Gene Kim: done last year. Oh, no. It's great to be on this. And by the way, I'm so glad we were able to do this today, so

Jay Gordon: yeah, high five. All right. We'll be right back to finish up this week's episode of Uncle Nightmares. Thanks again, Jean. Thank you. Well, that's it. What A really, really cool conversation with Gene. You know, being able to go all over the world, travel and meet people. It's one of the benefits of doing what I d'oh. And, uh, I can't really think the people who give me their time when I'm on the road Enough and Gene and Terry and Jason and Matt and, of course, Jennifer in the back of the room, who is going to absolutely kill it on her talk today, we're all really just a part of a big group of people that want to make sure that you're learning and growing. And so thanks for listening and start. And more than anything, thanks for taking part in all these devil upstairs that we d'oh. A lot of us really put a lot of personal emotional time in when I say emotional. I mean, things could be harrowing. It could be a lot of work, but more than anything, I think we do it because we all love this community. So that's it for this week will catch it next time. On on call nightmares
