Jay Gordon: you're listening to the On-Call Nightmares podcast in every week of your conversations with technologists who spent time on Paul. And this week I bring you a conversation with a friend and overall, incredibly well versed and smart person Matt Stratton off pager duty, a friend and a person that I believe a lot of great for me. So this was an interview that he and I have been meaning to do for a while, and it's just literally time finally work out for us. So I hope you understand way really wanted to do this because I just really like talking. And I think that this was a culmination of, ah, friendship and some professional things coming together. So I hope you enjoy it. Other than that, it's been a pretty normal couple weeks for me, eh? Not really planning on any events anytime soon until believe Dev upstate Chicago, and we'll actually have ah coupon code for DevOpsDays Chicago, thanks to Matt in this podcast episode, and it will be in the notes. So let's get into the interview. But before that, I want to remind you that if you'd like to be on an episode of On-Call Nightmares Really easy. Send an email to own Call Nightmare's at gmail dot com. Or you could reach out on Twitter. It's @OncallNightmare or @jaydestro. So let's hear from that. You're listening to the On-Call Nightmares podcast. And once again, I'm bringing you a conversation with a technologist who spent time on call. And I'm really lucky because, um, a few weeks ago I had someone from pager duty, and I like to talk about who wakes up the people who gets woken up, if you will. And I got a really awesome look into PagerDuty. Excuse me? Um, where they handle things there. It was really fun having a roof giving me some time. Um, since then, I am thought, you know, there's something from pager duty that I really think needs to be on this podcast, And it's not just because he's got amazing hair or we're good friends, but it's because you got 20 experience. 20 years of experience in 90 operation, uh, ranging from like large financial institutions, uh, such as J. P Work and Chase and Anna firms, including apartments dot com. And I know I've been on that website a ton. He was over it. Chef. He's been a real big part of Dev Ops Days and the global organization. He does a little bit of co hosting Arrested DevOps podcasts. And jeez, I don't know how much more I can lead into this is this guy does just a ton of stuff. His name is Matty Stratton. He works at pager duty

Matty Stratton: Hi Jay Thanks for having me on the show. I'm really excited. I love this show. I love what you're doing with it. It's, uh, way a painted it. You're very interested in what you do in this show, too, because it's your You're communicating a lot of things to practitioners, some customers of ours that we're interested in. So thanks for having me

Jay Gordon: no problem at all. So let's get started where I always like to, which is I'm gonna talk a little bit about how I know you and we'll go into from there. We met. Um, I think it. Eh, I'm gonna say it was Ah, a mongo D B. Events where, um, you were still representing chef, and, uh, I need to interview someone. So this is something that's actually happened a few times. We've We've done this interview process back and forth home and so it's funny. Uh, so So we met and people were like, Wow, you guys seem to I have ah, similar. Look, we're being both you guys with black T shirts and beardy and Husky with the tattooes. And that being said, you know, there was a natural kizmit if you will, Uh, and we, uh, really done a lot of stuff professionally together and ah, you know, also, in our private lives, we've been able to hang out and do some fun stuff. So thanks a lot for being part of this. And, you know, taking time from friends to also do this for the podcast is, is something I don't particularly like doing because it's it's making dual use. But you know what? Um, I really think people have a lot to learn from you and so beyond just being friends, I wanted to make sure that people got to hear the big stories that you have to tell because from you, when you and I have first met, I think we both kind of agreed that storytelling is one of the coolest parts of DevOps. It's a key

Matty Stratton: part of it, and it's It's really something that I've been talking about a lot this year and a lot of my conference talks. When I think about things like Post Instead reviews and postmortems about there really a form of storytelling, what never effective, among other things, it's not. It's not just about filling out a form and ready and Google doc that gets shoved off into confluence or whatever. If I could mix all the technology stacks together, we have to process these things. And storytelling is a great way to process it right. It's not about getting it all out but sharing stories. It does a couple different things, right. It's a way of us processing the thing that we can learn from it, and we will learn differently by telling the story, then by experience again, and also by interacting with other people. It gives a new insight into things that we can learn so storytelling. It's a big thing. I did an episode of the podcast greater than code, where we talked about this a lot, and I'm sure we can get a link to that in the show notes. If people are interested to get into more depth but storytelling, and that's why I love the show, the show is great. It's about stories, and I think it's I think, why That's really helpful is sometimes we want to hear stories because we want to understand that other people are going through the same thing that we're going through. Right, because a lot especially ops, couldn't feel very lonely sometimes, you know, I mean, not all of us working giant shops of S three teams of 300 people. Sometimes you're the one lone engineer that's in charge of everything, and you can feel like you're by yourself. And then also, I think it's hopeful toe. Understand that things have changed like it helps us realize. How far is an industry we have calm when we think about how things used to be, Um, and sometime having someone help point that out to you could be really helpful. I could be just quick anecdote that helps that so is a customer. When I was with Chef, I would spend a lot of time with the same customer over and over over years helping them with their transformation. And when I was leaving, Chef, I went to this one customer, the large financial trading floor. And they were basically is my last meeting with him. It was like, Oh, sorry when I could work together anymore are you know, you guys been great and everything, and they were kind of like I wish we could have gotten more done. You know, if we're there, so frustrating everything I said, y'all don't understand because you're in the middle of like, I'm the outside observer. You have done amazing things. Let me remind you of where you came from. Because when you're in the middle of it, you don't. You know, All you know is what you still want to be doing. Like getting that perspective can come from stories.

Jay Gordon: You know, it is really funny. I think that that's one of the big things that I've been trying to capture here with. The podcast is the idea. I know we're kind at now. Oh, are a lot of you. I kind of feel where you're right now because you talk about it a lot. Let's tell you where things were. Let's tell you how it was, um you know, maybe around 2000 to 2005 when things weren't so easy. Or maybe 9 18 96 to 2000 when things were just straight up, you know, six shooters and on really, you know, people hacking it together to make things stay on line at a time where scale was not a part of regular conversation. The idea off deployment was, ah, comical one like it was more like, Who's ftp it up? The latest version of this to

Matty Stratton: that? You know what? You just made me think of something really funny. That has not occurred to me until this exact minute. But I was sort of thinking through in my head like my history of on call and was thinking about when was the first time I saw him called. It was like I had a job for that that you would that I was. I just realized I was not on call at that job, but I ran infrastructure for an online computer mail order company. So basically a CW competitors at the time when CW had competitors and I just realized I'm like I works 9 to 5 at that company. There was no because we didn't care if people just It wasn't online e commerce sites that we only cared about 9 to 5. And yes, we'll just now that that was true. And that wasn't, you know, like 19 by the 1997.

Jay Gordon: Hit things together a cz long as you could as much as you could. Downtime was not necessarily villainized. There was no vilification of your downtime because nobody knew any different until the guy with the girl of the group of guys and gals who went and said, Hey, we fronted the money for this When they noticed there was downtime, which was always maybe once a week, it seemed like it would create nightmares. And this is where the phone call nightmare process for me kind of early started, where you know, someone who is tthe e the person who's making all the checks and going out to keep this thing alive. When they noticed downtime early on, it really became a thing. And, uh, that leads who kind of like, you know, business process is really saying to you, downtime is back, but we've moved forward where now downtime seems rare. unless it's it's part of a bigger cascading issue.

Matty Stratton: Well, and it's it's even taking that to the next level is that these days it's not even about upto up. Time's not enough. It's it's the customer experience, right? It?s speed is slow. Is the new down is what our CEO likes to say, right? Because the abandonment people have such expectations that we didn't think about stuff like that. We're just like it was happy it worked right, you know, And even then it's like sometimes it was like, maybe it didn't even work. But it was Yeah, it was. It was sort of always this mysterious thing wasn't really a lying toe understanding the business, but where so every company is attacked company. Every company is a software company, right? And it's so it's so that those conversations around things like use your experience and availability and things like that are all part of what the E. L t talks about. Now what organizations that they never would have thought that would have just been in the realm of the CEO like what? You just go to your text, right? We're gonna go. There

Jay Gordon: was a more top down feel of how things should be reviewed and how they all direct back to the business. And that's why I believe okay. Ours became far more popular in small shops as well, aligning things to the business and having the business a line back to the even the individual contributor. Uh, so I think that's important. But we've gone way, way into the present, and it's time you stepped back. So don't eat your your first kind of uncle experience. It sounds like I've heard it, but let's let's just talk about how you got started in technology and on call specific,

Matty Stratton: so I won't go too much into this. It's kind of, ah, crazy little wacky story, which is I found it very true of a lot of people at tops. Very few people, at least it who started their ups career in the nineties nearly to thousands. Like said, I want to be a tack up swag. This is when you find a lot of us were like theater majors or geology majors or did something else, and then realized they had to get a real job. That was me. So I went,

Jay Gordon: Yeah, I wanted to do this. I was like I wanted to be in radio. I know. I was gonna be, you know, making sure this website or that website on long, you

Matty Stratton: know, Did you know that I had a professional radio career for one summer? Look at that. I was a paid radio personality on WMD. Eat farm radio am 15 30 in rural Wisconsin, playing polka and country. I got paid to be on the radio playing polka music, But anyways, I have a podcast does for you folks that need my bio eso. But then, after I was in school for theater and realized I needed, I needed to be able to make some money. Um, and there's other things about that. But I started working for, uh I work for this Internet provider, and that's when I started learning web coding. Very early on stuff went night. I was the Web master for, and then the i t person for the company. I could talk about it because they're to fund the West Computer Works, which is a mail order place. But then the company went to from there was a system integrator, and I s P. And I was running kind of all of the infrastructure there and also like being hired out to consult organizations. So this was my first on whole experience is what I'm getting to. So, uh, isn't struggle suburbs? It was kind of been there, like, a week or two, and I you know, it's Tuesday night about nine o'clock at night and my pager goes off and it says that the mail server is down. So I'm news. I don't really kind of know. So I call my boss. I work for the owner of the company. There's a small company. There's, like, 10 plus right. So I called the owner and say, Hey, do you want me to go in and look at this? And he's like, No, no, no, I got it under control. No problem on my way to the office right now. So my first mistake was to say, Okay, sounds good. Flash forward to the next morning. Eight o'clock in the morning, I walk into the office sitting there in the middle of our bullpen, where we that is, my boss, bleary eyed. You could tell he's been up all night. Our mail server is in pieces a strewn across the floor. He's been trying to fix it all night, and it takes me the better part of the day to basically reassemble the computer because he's completely put everything back. And it turned out it was a configuration. And so this is one of those things where we, you know, our mail system was down for close to 24 hours and that the learning of this, the reactive learning, is from that point on, what would happen is I would be out on call, you know, out, like helping customers and doing things that my pager went off and something was wrong. I would immediately call one of our developers. It was in the office and sake he dan away from it. I'm on my way. Your job is to make sure he doesn't touch anything because he will make my life much heart. And this was, you know, we've all worked for people who if you're not doing your not helping, right? Sure, Yeah. As we know, when it comes to trouble shooting into bugging, sometimes you have to take a minute. You have to think you have to process and They're always for the verb. For this fellow, there always had to be activity going on. So this was my first learning of how important sometimes it is to run interference on stakeholders. That's gonna come up in another story earlier.

Jay Gordon: So this is way, way early

Matty Stratton: on, this was in 1996 1997. I want to say maybe 98. So it was That was the begin. That was my first time carrying a pager. Um, I think I had a job before that. I had a Nextel, but nothing really happened. That was more for during the day stuff. Right? But first on call was was there at a I s, um and it was a lot of just could be all kinds of things that we had no process, right? I mean, again, it was a small shop, and we were just learning. Sure, So they could. And it was expected. I was the only one who was ever on. There's no rotation, you know? I mean, like, I was on call 24 73 65. You know, thankfully, it was dumb guy didn't have a family and I was trying to learn a lot. So it was actually really I was okay with it, but, uh, looking back in time with things I know now, it was all about burnout. Sure, but we didn't know that. We just said that's what you do.

Jay Gordon: You move it forward, you end up at J. P. Morgan. You end up apartments dot com. Um, how do you start learning about your experience than about on call with these bigger organizations?

Matty Stratton: So one of the things that was really great about, like, going into a really large, large organization, um, like the bank or the other financial and insurance companies I work for is that there was process in place. So, like coming from a small shop that was the Wild West, that was Just do whatever. And that's all, you know, you come in and you're like, Wait a minute. You mean there's a rotation? You mean I'm not uncalled all the time? You mean I take turns? You mean there's people that can help me? Um, and I I always save it. Like during my time at the bank. I didn't grow a CE much technically as much as I became a subject matter expert, uh, Bank one and J. P. Morgan process. And I learned Aton about, like, I know that I decided, you know, that's what it was called. I thought that the bank in front of it so I wouldn't learn by my Oh, you guys didn't think this was, you know, and the efforts And the thing is like we talked a lot of crap about until in the devil's community and everything, but at the time, it, like, made sense because and I was a big proponent of it, because it was giving some structure to an area of the organization that was just not considered driving Valley. Right? So give us a way to figure out how to think about about service. Um, one of the things that was interesting with on call at Bank Waas because we didn't have, you know, like, air cards or, you know, like cellular modems and things like that. So the week that you were on call and this was a non remote work company like this was butts in the seats. But the week you're on call, you work from home that entire week because the expectation was that if you got paid. You're on a terminal within five minutes. So even your commute was too long. Andi, I remember specifically 11 year I was on call for New Year's Eve, and I was like, so my wife and I at the time we said, Well, we're gonna have a New Year's Eve party in our house because it doesn't say I have to be sober. It just says I have to be home. Sure. So this is a page. But I have a story that's similar to that

Jay Gordon: way We'll get into the stories, but I want to finish your kind of experience. Okay, so we move kind of past that, and then you go and do a little consulting for a while. Yeah. Um, you, uh, you move over the chef? Yes. You're a customer architect, and you're starting to help people build, uh, there solutions and really get the most out of automation. Um, what was your experience of oven call while you were there?

Matty Stratton: There is no such thing as a sales emergency was the amazing part. So for a while, so my experience was it, Chef, I was not on call. You know, I didn't carry a pager, right? And I had an interesting conversation. So Nathan Harvey and I've talked about this. Like when you spend a lot of your career in ops, you get this thing where it takes you a long time to realize it's okay to leave your phone in the other room and I will tell you, and I think Nathan and I figured out it takes about a year. It took me about a year from when I started it, Chef, which was basically when I started it Was that in any kind of call, it was okay to just not have my phone with me all the time. And it didn't cause a physical reaction like it would make me nervous to not have my phone because I was like, What if somebody calls? What if something happens? And to be able to sit there and say, But nothing is gonna happen? It's okay. And that plays a little bit, will come back to it. I want to talk about the importance of even if you are on call. There's things that have to do with that about the physiological response we have, Um, and how our bodies respond. Uh, but there s a lot of that was a good thing is I was I was being very proactive. I wasn't necessarily having to respond to that respond during the day and idea customers. We have questions, but it was very proactive and it was kind of nice. Um, I guess to be fair. But then when I because you never You never could fully take the on call out of the op spurs. And then I switched. Actually, I run the website for dumb up stays, so I might call for that. And that's a global thing. I mean, it's nothing like the banker, an insurance company. But, you know, I don't know. Fellow devastates organizers get kind of irritated when it does work, so

Jay Gordon: makes sense. But let's and then let's finish it and wear it. So where you are now is pager duty, and I've seen you do some really great conversations and talks about, you know, incident commanding and the human response to fight or flight, especially when things are at their worst. So what I've noticed lately is your career is really, uh, made. It may use of your prior experience of being in those situations. And now you're kind of helping people stay out of them by providing them with maybe not necessarily a template, but a guide. Tiu really avoid panic.

Matty Stratton: Yeah, absolutely. And I think that if you look at both my time it, chef and now my time Paige, do this. Why it's been important to me and why I think I'm helpful is that I've done this work, right, And it doesn't mean you have, but that you have to have been in the crap toe like able to understand it. But one of the things like for Chef. You know, when I was working as a sales engineer, I'm sorry. Solution. Architect. Call a spade a spade. Right side sales engineer. Um, was that when I would talk to ops people? It was like I used to say that I worked at shop because I believe in Chef, not the other way around. I was a chef customer. You remember before I decided to work there. So my life had been changed by configures code and automation and all these things. So I really believed in it and was able to kind of talk not just about the benefits from the bottom line and everything, but like, Hey, this is how your life is gonna be better because my life got better because of that. And then with pager duty, it's like because of Happy's history off when this wasn't great. And I understand you know what I've also talked about. You know, I'm like, I wish that there had been something like pager duty back when I was running opposite Apartment's Individually was just coming out that I remember looking at it and trying to make a business Kate for it, and then I like left company. It didn't matter. But this all used to be so hard and not even just the technology. But even the ways we think about things today, when I think about you know, I don't generally, if you do this by sitting, I'm like, you know, you want to go back to your past self and be like all these things you thought you knew. You were so raw and boy, could you look at this situation that could have been so much better if you understood about resilience, engineering and blameless postmortems off the stuff. And that's but that's okay, but it's just interesting to think about, but because I've been when it's unpleasant, I can empathize with people that are going through that and say, And this is how it can be better. And it's not just theoretical. I've actually experienced

Jay Gordon: awesome. So it's time to talk about those experiences. And in order for us to do that, you've already started. And so we're already and direct violation of the on call nightmares code off the rule. I I will allow it to pass. We'll get a waiver written at some point after the podcast. No worries. So part of the podcast is I really like to, um, mention I have rules and the rules are really on Lee to remind people why we do this podcast one. We don't incriminate ourselves and the stories we tell. And even if we don?t, Um, maybe because those companies are business anymore, that's okay. But let's not get ourselves in trouble because it's not worth it. Do not incriminate others. In other words, let's stay blameless. That's the whole idea of being in the world of Dev ops is we recreate, uh, blameless postmortems and help us learn, because that's what this podcast is. It's one big giant postmortem. This is episode podcast 32 of ah, of those retrospectives. And so, Madam, I know you've got a couple stories to kind of go over, But why don't you, uh, give us some idea of your, uh, your on call nightmares.

Matty Stratton: So one that comes to mind, Um, and it's again. It's similar to these these stories and I'll keep this is blameless as I can. Mostly this one is it could be filled with Avery blame this way. So I I worked for a company. That was it was a global company. But our entire network ran through our office in Chicago in the Sears Tower, and I was the network administrator. Um, and we had, you know, people. We had a network admin in Asia Pack and Mia, all you people who are running for those particular officers areas. But like our Internet connection for the entire world went through the one connection. Like, basically, we have a sprain relay network that brought everything back into Chicago, and then everything ran to the action. Wacky. Um and so the interesting thing was on my team. I was the only person who lived in the city, Eddie of Chicago. Everybody else lived out in the suburbs. So what would happen is if we had any kind of an issue with the Internet that was happening in the middle of the night because it was Asia pack or something. I was the one who would just by virtue of proximity, they're like, Well, you could get in a cab and you could go down to the series because we didn't have remote stuff for things like that, you know? And for good reason at the time. Because usually what would happen is almost always it was Well, the firewall had to be, and you had to do that physically, had to go into it. And I remember that, you know,

Jay Gordon: or automatic transfer switches for firewalls were things that were extremely scary to do. I had one or two of those in the past.

Matty Stratton: Well, this was actually running out of Windows box. Oh,

Jay Gordon: was that's even more terrifying. Yeah, And

Matty Stratton: it was. And I remember the, uh, the question had come up because again, it was like this was it was definitely stressful for the, for the offices on the other side of the world when the Internet would go down and they would have to wait for me to get a cab and it would take me, you know, 2030 minutes to get downtown, get up to the 45th floor, it in the data center, do all the stuff. Why don't we just put PC anywhere on the firewall when I was like, The fact that you want to do that is is why I'm the one that still keeps going and doing that. But it was that idea again. It's it's it's going back to that hero culture idea, right? Which is, Well, that's just what you do, right. It's Someone has to do it rather than trying for us trying to figure out like that. This was actually a really big single point of failure on me to be the one to go do this. What was required to human thing and we never really. It never occurred to us that this was a problem like today. I think we would think about that. We're like there's toil involved here. There's things were happening. They're not helping us do our job better. But it was hero culture. Um, I another one That was really interesting. We had a scenario where we had changed a pretty big, pretty big change in architecture er for our website and we were moving. It was all about message delivery like that with the company that was working for, like sending messages and leads to our customers was critical. That was our entire value proposition. So was our GM. Used to say, if we can't suddenly it, I'd rather have the website be down if we can't actually send me because it doesn't. So we were we were using. We had moved from a kind of very simplistic but effective, um, directly delivery system so that we started using a queuing system using MSN Q. And it really was We didn't really do a great job because it was new to us and everything, but we started to run in problems once it got into production, and we started really putting a lot of stuff threat where the queues would get backed up, you know, the workers couldn't catch up, and then it became a race condition off. They would get so far backed up that they would never catch up. And this was also MSN. Q. Was relatively new at the time. The version where using was new. And I remember I remember sitting in my kitchen, you know, when this was happening over a weekend, and I have my senior sys admin is on your side of the force. You know I'm on. I'm on a conference call with him. He's on his cell phone with Microsoft, trying to work the problem and at and then I have my CEO is you know, it was very concerned because again, it's all this stuff is coming downhill, right? GM is upset and that's what we're doing right now. What are we doing right now? And the reason I I kind of tell the story because it was very We're spending so much time providing updates, and it was getting in the way of us being able to actually solve the problem right way. And the clock was ticking not only because we weren't doing lead delivered, but we knew that there was a white that if the amount of messages and that you had a certain way, those workers would never be able to catch up. It was just physics, right? And they were It would take them so long to process. But the amount that kept flowing in, you know, so was literally a race against time. And then every time you're like, OK, well, now someone else is on the call. We gotta bring them up to speed. And I've learned a lot and, well, I think we'll probably talk about learnings that a little bit, but there's a lot of things that we think about differently today about how to help with that kind of situation. Um, we we also, uh, had this is this is kind of interesting thinking about today's testing and production ideas, but, uh, one, uh, remember we did a massive redesign of our website and we launched it, you know, and everybody went home, and it was fine with this rumor. Do it releases a Tuesday night at eight o'clock or whatever so releases Don, it's nine o'clock. Everybody goes home. It's fine. And then in the middle of the night, the pager starts lighten up. And what had happened was we had, uh, Mr Convict change in the release because we had throttled a certain way for pre pride. But what was killing us was Google, and that was a thing we just never tested The Google crawler who call it came. It was just hitting us hard. And it is

Jay Gordon: amazing how many problems I recall, especially from from websites that didn't have a ton of resource, is from just getting start from Google crawler. I will never understand how being indexed would really do the pure what damage it seemed to do in times, but it was quite amazing. So I know where you're

Matty Stratton: coming from and and again. And it was one of those things where it took us a while. You're trying to sell it because we're like, but everything was fine, you know, It was it was all good. We left. We tapped out we and and that one was really because very her, because it was a very big again. This was very, you know, it was big bang, massive redesign, all this marketing around it. So there was a ton of pressure, uh, kind of kind of situation. I'm not when I was was one.

Jay Gordon: Let's get a little deeper into that one, because That's really interesting kind of conversation we can have. So do you have to have any sort? Of course, more time to talk about how Google crawler was the direct impact. And did you talk about out this creed? That kind of cascading failure or how was it handled it that way?

Matty Stratton: Well, we didn't do postmortems, right? Way really didn't learn from incidents. What we what? We usually what happens afterwards? I was expected to write up a report on what happened that could get set up  the GM that had to sort of be turned into whatever and then would be turned around and say, Well, why don't we have a monitor for that? That was that was always the answer. When we have it out is why aren't we minded? Rate?

Jay Gordon: And yeah, I've learned a lot about these situations early on is its data versus information, if you will, and so so much data is captured and gets to shipped up to somebody. But we don't like, really gain any information from that. And there's no postmortem that helps kind of create change. So tell me about like how eventually you could see an organization that's not getting over the hump. How do you learn from that and help people make that kind of fundamental change in their organization, where it's not just one person threats and email, and that's the end of it.

Matty Stratton: It's really about, um, the idea and and and a lot of people don't like it because it's adding another meeting and it's taking time. But I like to say that right? Only postmortems don't help anyone, right? So if you're if you're doing your postmortem for you got your little postmortem template, you fill it out, do the thing, you shove it off into confluence, and then you're done. That didn't really help anybody. What has to happen is they have to be conversations, and it's also about sharing that information. And there's a couple different ways that that that happens. You need to think about how are you gonna have a guided conversation, have someone facilitating it and the person facilitating It should not be someone who was involved in the incident because they're gonna ask different questions. They're gonna drive in a different way, but what you need to do is sort of have that ability to have it is a conversation because it's a way of distributing information. That's part of the point of a postmortem. John All spot is kind of saying that I agree with Mrs Postmortem should raise more questions than make cancer right. We should come out of postmortems with questions, not with answers, but that's

Jay Gordon: absolutely amazing point. You know, one thing that I've noticed is that if if we had most more postmortems than involved, um, people in product teams, people from the sales organization so that they can all report what incidents impact was on there, uh, you know, experience, whether it's the customer or how the product was expected to respond in these incidents, that's what I really think is is the value of a postmortem being

Matty Stratton: a conversation, and they could bring up different ideas, and they could just ask questions that might not occur to those of us who are right in the thick of it. Um, this goes back to is what I saw Really good tweet. An article the other day that would say that one of the core problems with root cause analysis is root cause analysis traditionally is exists to look for blame. What do we blame? This? And that's the difference, right? What we're saying we want to understand, um, the questions, right? One of the things we're gonna learn in the investigation and this is a hard type of work to do what it requires a specific skill set. And organizations need to start to think about how they can invest in having people that can do this. It could be good at facilitated postmortems and then also could do that kind of investigation on. That's really hard to, you know, It could be kind of a hard pill to swallow because you're basically asking for more. Resource is, but you can start by at least having them be conversations right. As long as you understand that you're not totally that right, that's not the be all and end all you need to develop these muscles. But think about again how they can have it could be stories. That's how you can learn from them. And again, the point of it is not to provide a report that goes on the status page, right? That's that's fine. It could be helpful for that. There was again Thio John all day long. But Cloudflare had their recent outage and they wrote a block that was like here all the way through the factors. And a lot of us were raving about it because they're using all the right words like truth, noble cause and blameless. Voila. And then John pointed out and said, Remember, this is not a postmortem. This is There's nothing wrong with his grand

Jay Gordon: relations. Essentially, that's the way it needs to look like it. And I'm gonna say it, and I hate to say it like this, But most public facing postmortems are PR material. It's stuff that goes through a marketing department and also your communications team. They read every piece of it. Sure, there is a lot of technical information, but there's a lot of C Y involved as well. Well, even if

Matty Stratton: you want to be completely transparent, I think part of John's Point was, the postmortem that happens inside is about asking questions. It's not about providing a report there, just two different artifacts. They're both good artifacts and they're valuable. But there, and I think that's a good way to think about it, is there is. There is a report. There's a thing that's like, here's what we know and what happened and so we could have some data. But the postmortem is What are we gonna learn? How are we gonna learn? How are we gonna do better? How are we gonna improve and what are we going?

Jay Gordon: I don't say maliciously but public facing postmortem under our press releases. And I believe that they are for the most part. Because, like I said, you're not going to get what the true for future remediation zehr going to be out of that. What you're going to hear is what the business wants you to know about what happened, how it was repaired and how you can count on them. Those are the big things that I always get from. Um, like, this is what was what broke. This is why it broke. This is why we think it won't break again. And why can you trust us? And so I think that needs to be something that's looked at is very different from what ah a team comes out with. And when you ask the questions, how did this effect? You know? Ah, product of purchase rate from, you know the top of funnel. Like, how much did it impact our, um, our public persona on our brand. So those are the things that it's not gonna be part of, but they're all important.

Matty Stratton: Well, it again and it's all because it's someone sounds like an internal postmortem is gonna be asking a lot of questions and creating a lot of actions that you may never do anything with because they don't make sense. But you need to be able to have them in there like one of the action items might be like, Well, there was. This is a silly example, and I think whole readers use this one, but I doubt you'd probably like it may come out of it and saying like, Well, we have this problem with AWS. So one thing we could do is move everything on premise Way could do that. Are we gonna do that? No, but but you should be able to sort of have these conversations, but you're certainly not gonna like again. There is a hold. It's a

Jay Gordon: go multi cloud. It's a different purpose, right?

Matty Stratton: Like it's it's, uh, one is for learning. One is for reporting. Exactly. You know, and they're both valuable and they're both, And they both could be done well or not. Well, you know, um, and we can get into a whole other thing about there's ah thing lately where a lot of on public postmortems are our staffs, but they like Thio to blame the providers you like. Oh, well, this happened because aws and it's like, No, no, no. Sorry. Like, this is still what are you gonna do about right? Yes. And as a customer, I don't really care that your supplier had a problem. That doesn't help. I'm not paying that. I'm paying you.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, I mean, and I hate to do an analogy like this, but if I go to the gas station, you say, Well, you know, my distributor didn't come with the gas today. You know what? I don't care. You didn't have gas for me. I couldn't come complete my transaction with you. That fills gas in the car. Why? You couldn't get gas. I mean, ultimately, as the consumer, I don't know if I really care. Unless it's part of some sort of greater issue. That's maybe social or economic or political. But if it's just a supply chain issue, and that is kind of what these issues are. When your provider is not working, that might mean that you didn't distribute across your provider or multiple providers, and often that's a conversation that you have internally because that's a hard action item, even more than on from multi cloud. You're just and you're going nuts. So let's let's

Matty Stratton: kind of stalling. And Pollinimbus is the world.

Jay Gordon: You knew this, but that's a conversation for your podcast and food. Folks just do some tweet searching. That's all we got to say. But anyhow, if you are speaking to someone right now and they're listening and they're on call, what's piece of advice you would like to give that

Matty Stratton: person? Self care matters so much when you're on call MAWR almost than anything else, you gotta take care of yourself during your uncalled rotation because everything about being on call is designed to stress you out. No matter how good your organization is, it is a stressful thing. It just it's right, like I'll put it this way. So I'm been on call. Rotation is it's a commander page to be, and I love our process. I'm very into it, and it's not struggling when we have an incident. It's fine, you know? And when I'm on call, I'm sitting. Go. Please don't hate me. Please don't page me. Please don't. It's just like you just on edge. That's just how it it's. So there's so you got to kind of take actionable things to make things better about self care. So a couple really quick bits of advice. So one thing is physically take care of yourself. It's very easy when you're in your like doing a lot of caffeine and eating a lot of junks, trying to eat healthier more than you usually do. Um, I have some anima Tina from Gremlin has really good advice where she has a specific, uh, dinner date that she does with someone for friends, and she only does it during the week when she's on call, so it actually gives her something to look forward to. She's like, there's this restaurant I love and me and my friends go to it, and it's part of my on call tradition. Um, so maybe a Maybe you can't. Maybe you don't do something like that, but have a little thing that makes it a little special. Um, the other thing. And this one's a little harder, But during your on call week, you should, you know, we only have so much bad with. And so you work with your manager. Don't work on big projects. Big deliver, Bols. The week called Maybe Think about remediation projects because contact switching is really, really hard. And in the final one that I think is a cool idea. And I'm trying to figure out a way that we could do something with. Sweat is I know people who have the idea of an on call pudding. So there's a special hoody. They were only when they're on call, and the beautiful is because you know what you get to do with that, honey, get to take it off. But it creates this physiological association that it's like now I'm on call mode. Okay, now I can take it off, and that's the one thing is the beautiful thing. As much as we may hate to be put on, call the beautiful thing about being on call. If you're in an on call rotation, it means that you are sometimes off call. I got news for you. You're not getting on call rotation. You are on call all the time with, Oh, boy, that's that's terrible. But I had to find you.

Jay Gordon: And if a manager who's managing an on call rotation is listening, what kind of advice can you give

Matty Stratton: them? So I think I'm a fan of if someone is up in the middle of the night working an incident, give them some comp time, but it needs to be given within 48 hours, and the reason for that is because it's not a reward. Its recovery time, right? It's something like, Okay, you were working this issue all late last night, take tomorrow off or come in at one o'clock or something. But it's not like vacation time. You could bang because we're not trying to carry your rights out of carrot is just a way of self care. And so the advice would be to do that and then also worked with your on call Folks toe. Understand that during their on call rotation change their workload to be more focused on, you know, maybe doing remediation projects that necessarily the bigger projects on then finally institute some type of uncool handoff meeting. So when you're switching from one location, other could be quick just doing kind of operational review off taking in the outgoing on whole person and the ingoing and just do it a little. Hey, this is what last week was like or what The last two days were like just to kind of gives it. And as a manager gives you insight into what was happening, that might not surface because your contributor, your team members might not identify to you just things that happened. Not that they're gonna hide things, but just surfaces little things that don't strength computer that you, as a manager might want to be aware of it be like, Oh, wow. Yeah, now that I think about it, you really were up a lot. You really did a lot of stuff during this rotation and we only thought about it. Feed the small little bits.

Jay Gordon: Well, thank you very much, Matt. You've given us time to think about and before we start wrapping it up completely, I want to give you an opportunity to kind of give. It's an idea of any things that you got going on lately. I know you're always on the road. Kind of like me are always giving people opportunities to hear all this great information. So what you up to?

Matty Stratton: So first, all if you'd like to find out where I'm gonna be speaking in the future if you go to speaking dot max trent dot com, that shows that kind of all my upcoming of Anson's got all recordings of stuff of my other talks. So if you if you happen to run into me and event come say, I love to talk and hear kind of your stories about all this stuff I run damn upstate Chicago, which is a t end of August. If you go to develop states shy dot or go and use the code a d 0 2019 you'll get 20% off. So that's great. And then also we have Paige. Henry has are some. It's September 23rd and 25th in San Francisco. One of the parts of the event that is actually free is something called The Break a Thon will put a link in the show notes to that. That's an event that I run. It's totally free to attend. It's a little bit like a capture the flag, but it's more for infrastructure. We create kind of fun, different infrastructure that we break. You try to fix it. We give away prizes, we have a good time. But if you'd like to attend a summit, we've got some great speakers. We have slashed Moto. Um, we've got a whole bunch of other great people speaking. You go to community dot page of ee dot com slash summit. You couldn't get my special discount from there, and I'd love to see there. And as always, you know, feel free to arrest kebabs dot com and DOJ has been on a couple episodes. So you know, if that's what it takes to get you to listen to my show on over.

Jay Gordon: And, of course, you've got DevOpsDays Chicago 2019 for 20% off. When you register, make sure you come see myself. Uh, we've got Sasha Rosenbaum. We've got, um, caress a path. If I'm saying last name correctly, I did. Wow, I should, because I worked with her. Um, just so many other really smart, interesting people wanna learn you on some Dev ops. So, uh, it's also in Chicago, which is a brilliant city. And I know that if you've never been there, you really should take that trip. So I want to thank you so much, Matt, for your time today, it was really great to speak with you. Um, way get a chance to speak a lot. But we don't talk as much shop, especially as much old shop is Ah Wei. Thankfully, we don't be honest with you Get to actually enjoy each other's time like that.

Matty Stratton: You should put a picture. A picture from the Cubs game. 

Jay Gordon: sure? Yeah. I'll put That is are we were actually friends. It's not just I'm going to fear for your show shot for this. Oh, there we go. Perfect. It's an awesome picture because I think your son is in It is okay, So thanks a lot. And, umm, once again that, uh, appreciate your time. Like I said as a friend and also, as you know, colleague uh So hopefully I will see you in Chicago. And other than that, we will see you at the end of this episode as I begin to wrap up. So thanks again that we'll talk to you again soon, won't we?

Matty Stratton: Thanks so much. Jay, it was a lot of fun.

Jay Gordon: That's it for this week. Thank you so much for listening and being part of this podcast as a reminder. If you'd like to be on this podcast to send a note to At on Call Nightmare or you can also reach out at @jaydestr or just sent me an email. It's On-Call Nightmares at gmail dot com. Looking forward to more episodes and being able to talk to you more about all this amazing stuff that goes on with people who have spent time on-call. So thanks again for listening.


