Jay Gordon: you're listening to the On-Call Nightmares Podcast. Every week I bring you conversations with technologists who spent time on call this week. I bring you a conversation I had with Jason Schuster of Stratos and Jason has been intact for about 20 years and Event landed his first job, admiring HPUX servers to low salary and really went in for some of the training and ended up helping cos instrument. We are working in internal systems for government contracts 13 years, and now he's working on Stratos, and he's working on some really interesting things around. Terra Form and Other Cloud Service is. So Jason fell me pretty much the same way. I tell you all you should find me, and that's just Cimino, and it's really easy. Just send an email to oncallnightmares@gmail.com, or tweet at OnCallNightmare or at jaydestro. So next week you'll be able to find me DevOpsDays in Portland. I'll be doing a talk there shortly. Ah, nice, quick ignite. I'll be meeting with people and having conversations. I hope to be meeting with you and maybe doing an interview with you. I think that we really awesome. And if you'd like to be that person, you know, like I said, I'll be in Portland and be there for devastates. I'm very easy to find email, media, me, whatever it is. So that being said, let's get into our conversation with Jason as we get into what he's done in operations over almost 20 years, 


Jay Gordon: You're listening to the On-Call Nightmares podcast. Every week I bring you conversations with technicians who spent some time on call this week. You know, I always ask everybody, come to me, give me your stories because there's no podcast without your stories. And you know it's not just for the people who are the big Dave CEOs and the CEOs. I know I try it, get a lot of stories, but that's because I am high achiever. But I really want to hear from people who are currently I sees we're currently involved in on call rotations and that are seeing what's going on. And that's what I got lucky that I got to speak with today. Jason Schuster. Uh, Jason Schuster works that Stratos san and he's been involved in technology for what? About 13 years now, uh, closer to 20. All close to 20. Supporting our internal systems for government contracts for 13 years. But a career that's been involved in Tech for about 20. Correct? That's awesome. Suggests. And thank you for coming on too long. Call nightmares. Um, you know, one of the great things about this podcast is it's really a simple as you hear the podcast and you see, you know what? I got a story, and it sounds like you got some stories, but let's learn a little bit about you. Sound cool?

Jason Schuster: Yeah, totally. Um, I took a few years off before I went to college, and I got the mandatory best thing you could do for 90 career, which was a the FAA in theatre design. Because, you know, degrees are really and the best thing is really sell that as far as being like, Hey, I'm used to having a really tight deadline with a whole bunch of interdependencies and scheduling 100 making sure everyone has told me so I

Jay Gordon: worked with a woman named Chloe Condon and Chloe. He actually was a theater major and then was in theater before she can't attack. And one of the things that she likes to kind of promote is the fact that, you know, it's it's a caught its performance when you do a lot of the things that she and I do is develop our advocate. So I greatly appreciate people coming from theater background.

Jason Schuster: Yeah, but I graduated in June of 2000 so, you know, right after the dot com boom, because, hey, why not enter the workforce, then? Yeah, I was doing some like desktop support, like going people's homes and replacing bits and pieces for IBM and doing what u K compliant stuff. Uh, and I was able to swing an interview with a really big outsourcer. CSC, who no longer exist. They were contemporary to Accenture is like how big they were Sheriff's

Jay Gordon: 11 Emmett's PR managed service provider. So let me guess, you're like taking care of the big, big things for companies that they just didn't know how to do.

Jason Schuster: Yeah, my first contract was faster on the web, so filled filling out your finance forms for the government, and I get a lot of stuff like that for that, And,

Jay Gordon: yeah, so you were like It looks like you had to deal with 24 7 data center at that time. Oh,

Jason Schuster: yeah. So they got me really cheap because they're gonna trip, trained me. And they did treat me well, and they sent me to a lot of really awesome HP classes. Surprisingly, it wasn't the week what long ones that were great. It was the two day one on L B M that really, like paid my bills from a long time because knowing more about just how to do magic with disks and whatnot was that used to be said something big. And now that's a skill that, mostly gone is if you're in the cloud because there's still where do you actually interact with this?

Jay Gordon: Great rate management is something that you be honest with you. It is really now on the cloud architects or or service, or I guess which we call solutions architects because your average administrator doesn't have to concern themselves with raid levels and things like that anymore. It's just no part of what we do

Jason Schuster: know. You don't have to worry about to fiber channels going back to the sand. This fiber kind of switches between you and the sand working on all the address ing stuff. Yet none of that. None of that's a thing anymore. And it's it's interesting that it's not a thing anymore, except for that one day, every five years that it is. And you're like, Wait, I know

Jay Gordon: this. Yeah, when there's some sort of, like Colonel exception that has to do with the driver with a specific rate card that one day with that one person that doesn't have Colonel Haki, they use it out and makes everyone cry. I know that day. So you worked there for About what years? 13

Jason Schuster: years? Actually, I remember They gave you the extra week of vacation at year four. And then the next one came at year 14 and I was just like, ha. That will never happen. And it was just about to happen when it was time to leave.

Jay Gordon: Sure. So then you move on and you go to a place called I C. A. And where is this all located? Are you working remotely area? Working in an office is how are you doing all this at this point?

Jason Schuster: Um, I started off in Connecticut and Then I was working in D. C. And then I started doing contracts local in D. C. After being remote from the team and kinetic it, um, I then virtualized everything alright then moved everything out of D C Thio different data center and what that project was done. I'm like, Hey, I'm leaving town. Do you want me to keep doing your stuff? And they said yes. And so I did probably, uh I think it was eight or nine years here in Nashville just cause I'm here. And so yeah, everything they're after is here and here in Nashville was a bunch of small places.

Jay Gordon: So now you move for work a couple other jobs and you start getting into you working as ah Dev ops analyst, engineer. In your part off places where you're on bring them into the sea, I see the world, and it sounds like kind of that's where your art it's Stratos, that now you're assisting with of time on conference networking and helping companies with their stash application stuff like that.

Jason Schuster: Yeah. Um, last gig I was the only person in the company for a while. They eventually got more, but I was still taking care of their one sass up. Um, so army of one kind of being 24 7 on call, except for the fact that with it was a low volume application. Huh? Uh, most people were using it during during business hours or daylight hours. And most problems that didn't self hell could wait into the morning. So

Jay Gordon: that's it. So how long? How long would you say you've been on call? And what do you know? When when was your first kind of like jump into it?

Jason Schuster: Um well, right when I started my very first job in 2000 they were training me and I was taking care of some of the deaf systems. And then one of the senior Adnan's laughed and they handed me his machines and said, He'll play in traffic. And so it's been essentially, you know, 20 years of carrying a pager of some kind or another one of the things that led to me leaving their waas. I you know, teams roll cos change. I was moved into a team of 12 when I left. I was on call one week in three, and that was it. That was part of what broke me on that one.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, but one thing that I learned that a lot of us who worked in operations for very long times that we've seen the maturity of the on call rotation. And it's actually been one of the things. I think that seems a lot of us in certain places that once you find a company that you're going to be a part of their ops team dev ops, whatever it is, you really are searching for a mature on caller quotation or something, that's a fuck out the sun or whatever it is, because it really makes a difference between whether you're saying or

Jason Schuster: not. Yeah, and whether or not everyone's on the page with you for triaging the triaging, what calls come in and how they come in And who calls you? Why whom? Recently, one of the pipe got your podcasts. I listen to you said something about If you get, uh, Page, that's of no action. You do have an action, and that's turned out that page.

Jay Gordon: It's very important. I learned that so long ago.

Jason Schuster: Yeah, and it's funny in this day and age, with all the automation it's way easier to shut up alerts with your Maggio's or whatever system you're using. That it is to tell the the NOx Center who's there with their three Oran minder. And they're like, Well, you know, it turned red. I know it says here not to call you, but I turned red, so I wanted to call you And just like, dude like Europe A three in the morning I'm about

Jay Gordon: Yeah, human process is one of the most difficult parts of I guess what you call look at Dev ops transformation or are a solid on call rotation. Either way is this like you can write as many run books is want, but people will still see that red doctor gets scared by it. Absolutely. So let's talk about being scared. And that's where you kind of take over the microphone for a little while and you tell us a story about, you know, being on call in a nightmare. But before you do that, we are rules. And, um, one of the coolest things I've got to do recently is I I got to do, Ah, a talk at Dave Off stays in Chicago and I did it a little bit was mentioning this podcast that I got to do the rules live and it was fun. I got to go. So there are rules and people are like, Oh, my guess, three rules one do not incriminate yourself. Do not incriminate others because we are blameless in all of our retrospectives. And three, help us learn. Because this podcast like that talk I did was a retrospective. So, um, with that Jason, I want to hear your own call nightmare.

Jason Schuster: Um, there are a few, but I think I think I'm gonna go with that whole don't incriminate anyone else. And, you know, we do blameless rest retrospectives. And I'm going to give the negative example of why this is a great rule. Because usually the whole blameless retrospectives is to keep your teammate with you and the other parts of your organization with you. And you don't want to leave anyone Marone learning and growing. And, you know, the whole point is not to have happened twice, huh? So I just picked up all the finance systems from various coat closets and underneath people's desks in D. C. And I had just moved them to Ah, very modern high tech, high availability data center. The type of data center that had two feeds running to two different directions out of there, Just too different power grids, etcetera, etcetera, giant generator farms. And so I just finished this. We're settling in. We're getting going. And then the data center goes duck Ah, 100 hour lost to an entire data center. And I actually have a drive from D. C to Delaware to help turn on everything you know, and and also make sure things were coming up in the right away because some surfers turned right back on when power came back. But the sand obviously had a long way to come back up because this was in the old days of the big E M season of it,

Jay Gordon: and they would have to mount their their lungs and their and their mouth points. And if they didn't melt properly, then you'd have file systems that were stale, and you would be able to connect to him and everything would suck.

Jason Schuster: Yeah, So the the adventure of giving everything back up running fsc K's on machines that had been up for four or five years. That was all fun and games, but the part that really becomes, you know, the learning moment is the post action report for all these clients. You know, a good chunk of the clients of of the company in the U. S. The root cause analysis was Oh, ah, Contractor was here and they left this switch in a position. This switch was not supposed to be left left in, and at same time we had this thing and the report literally said, Ah, perfect storm, because that is a movie, that it happened. And then two weeks later, it happened again. It might have only been a week later, it happened again. Same things switch out of position Something something or know when they were coming back, well, they had already come back off. Generators there was doing a generator test and a generator test somehow produce the same results. It's half years that I don't recall the details, but so what are you gonna tell your clients then? So if you'd had a blameless, blameless, like resolution to that that you know, you wouldn't have as much again your face when it happens again and you don't have someone to, you know, throw up, throw up for the lines and be like, Oh, it's all his fault. It is the second time you're you're obviously on the hoverboard, so that's just a object lesson in There's more than one reason to be blameless.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, I am. I had a C t o a long time ago during a a now outage announced that was actually caused by someone knocking cable out. And it was one of those things where that person eventually got let go, because was like, the third or fourth time they've done this kind of thing about Bob with long story is that I got told to tell a story that had nothing to do with a person kicking a cable out. I got too old to tell a story that had something to do about lime card, and and it's amazing what sometimes people will do to help you make sure that customer feels comfortable. A lot of people don't understand the nonsense that goes on and ups, and a lot of times prior to, I think super like awesome redundancy and systems we were a lot of us were winging it on making and that that these like Ah, lot of these things had to be blameless because it was too embarrassing at times to tell what really happened.

Jason Schuster: You mean, like taking a weeklong outage from the windows guys because they decided Thio clean up the cabling to the rack and nothing was labeled correctly.

Jay Gordon: You know, I I've worked in situations where it wasn't just like the one group of people, but, like, you know, the hardest thing I've found, and especially with migrations, migrations, we're dealing with outages that have to do with, like, systems. And Lee is the fact that we don't document quite enough about our physical systems that they will easily return from an outage. Att? Least we didn't. I think about 10 years ago now. I'll

Jason Schuster: certainly didn't. And then it it might have been perfect a day off, but drift that it never happens when you, you know, you swap out this one card or oh, yeah, this copper went bad and we swapped it out like the drift over time is, I think the bigger killer of that especially back.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, and like, if places where you're talking about M. S. P's where you're talking about hosting providers where customers are expecting certain kind of responses to what year it is you're doing. Ah, lot of times that there's no answer. Look, or there's not a business, um, acceptable answer that you could give to the customer. And one of the things that I really appreciate about where I'm at now is that, you know, working in a farm work different culture than I did. Neal say 5 10 15 years ago is, um is that you know, when a thing happens, customers, I think are more capable of recognizing that these failures occurred and that they're building around?

Jason Schuster: Yeah, and I and I think we have done done better because now it's no longer like, Oh, I'm looking at a black screen. I'm leaning at a comprehensible error page. I am. I am going to their Twitter and checking for the status there. It's no wonder falling into a black hole, and also I think people have. I think, back 10 15 years ago, people were still usedto IBM showing up in blues suits with, you know, the ties and being like we're going to just come here and save you and this thing will run forever and ever and ever. And the reality is, is once we started hooking things up to the Internet, like that level of predictability Formative, it took a look. It's it's taken until the modern cloud evolution for us to start being like, oh, we can have throw enough hard work things that they're reliable. We're no longer, you know, oh, serving millions of people with a single one you server and we don't have enough money for the 2nd 1 We don't. Yeah, you have failed to the 2nd 1 which was the reality for a long time.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, I think that's true. Is for a lot of time people were computing on the cheap because of the capital expenditure associated with getting on like started. And now the fact that we don't have to worry about that because we can see What do you need? All right, here's Ah, credit card. Let's just go. Yeah, it is far different. It's so so back to your story a little bit. I'm curious throughout that period. And eventually did you find a long term resolution to some of the issues that you were seeing, um, with this particular incident. Um, with this particular

Jason Schuster: incident, it was kind of out of my hands. It was purely ah physical plant issue at the data center, which I was remote, too. Sure, it did help us explain to the internal clients why having disaster recovery, objective times and point time to point of failure and whatnot were so important. And that definitely helped shape RTR strategy going forward because now the client understood dis really what those met.

Jay Gordon: I think that's an important part of this story to tell us that the fact that it led to D. R. Is that I think that not enough people get that it takes tale of failure occurs sometimes organizations to recognize the disaster recover needs to be part of what they're doing. And they don't take that on early. Um, then they'll have an outage that makes them recognize that this part of their business continuity plan and for those of us who being in an attack for a long time, the turn business continuity plan is always one of those things that you know, especially operations. You get thrown at it and, like, how are we going to continue running if X wires. He goes down and 10 to 15 years ago, far more convoluted. But now it is. It's amazing how we could like, you know, well, we could just spend up this with terra form. You know, turn up these VM czar. You have these containers, and then the database will restore, will be ready to go, you know? And we seem like That's it easy and programmatic thing to do. And I think that's one of the biggest differences. Is it? It's much simpler to say failure can be resolved with code and other options as opposed to Holy shit. We got to get more servers online.

Jason Schuster: Yeah, No, Absolutely. And that's that. You know, back in the day, I would go thio Ah, vendor with lots of tapes that came back from Artie, are, you know, archive Bender and I would sit there with a hunk of bare metal and, you know, instead of tapes and like one of the big things I brought to the D R procedure for our team was I made the recovery of our backup software way faster, way more efficient to the point where I had the whole tape, library and catalogue online before people were done restoring their OS and that that was something that no one had taken ownership of. And it was this meandering like No one really understands the voodoo being done. And the nice thing is, this day and age, um, it's way easier to spin above bm test the procedure for that sort of work and have good confidence going in and that it's going to work. Um, so yeah, no, they're like the art of disaster recovery. Like at one point, I had ah, Net Backup server that was doing an arson thio, a sister server that was located in the disaster recovery facility because we paid for a rat there and that that made ers even faster. Yeah, but, you know, that was also another hunk of stuff to maintain. And

Jay Gordon: that's and that's ultimately which were very, very lucky. We don't really have to be in that world, So a CZ we kind of start rolling to the end of one of the questions I'd like to ask you if someone's listening right now. And there are all what's a piece of advice you give

Jason Schuster: them? I think I think you have all the sleepless nights. Um, the keeping track of what you've solved under that when you see it again is amazingly handy. And some I had a plain old T X T file with all my cheats and commands in it. And now that could be a one note that could be a get repo. That could be, uh, unlimited number of things. But having that scratch pad will save your life, especially when you're bleary eyed at three in the morning. You're like, Oh, it's this thing again. And the nice thing is, these days you can usually write a have a script written for that, that trainers to run without you. And that's one of the That's one of the cool things nowadays that we couldn't you back in the day, especially when you're dealing with more hardware, fat failures, then the sort of stuff we see now. No, the other thing is, you know, keeping achievement, Doc. So when you get to that review time, like you can say what you've done, and especially since where most of us are doing ops type things, um, the things that you have caused not to happen and to make sure you keep track of that? Because no one no one notices when the trains run on time, Of course, Trains running time because their trains. Um, there were times that I got really angry because a different team was working really hard because other stuff blew up because they haven't done all the pre work. And I was on a contingency plan. Three continuously can't plan for because I wasn't going to fail and I went hit the timeline, hit the window. So I made sure my backup plans and backup friends or success, which is good, good habit to be in. But so they were getting the recognition for working hard. And no one commented on the fact that my stuff went waste mint. So I understand it. Like keeping those things and those kind of advocacies for yourselves. Sure. Um, real important.

Jay Gordon: Absolutely. So, um, let's wrap up. I just kind of tell everybody if you have any up. What do you kind of doing now? Is it, uh what is it? Stress? Sada, I'm sorry. Fan san. It's fast, Stratos. And sorry, by my apologies,

Jason Schuster: doing incredibly boring things that we're all very happy about. Um, we do business intelligence for hospitals to help improve their service. Two of their client area. So obviously, you know, it's exciting pulses getting high. Um, but literally. Just, um it's such a clean stack that when I came in, I'm like, let me see if I can save money over here. Oh, that's 10 bucks. Oh, that's 20 bucks. So just continuing. Streamlining continuing. Upgrading the terra form, getting us off bits of aws we don't really want to be on anymore. We're kind of lashed to sew my day. Today is these days I've inherited a Jenkins server which, um, I am not a fan of, but, you know, that's life.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, it certainly is. Well, Jason, thank you very much for being part of the podcast today. I really do appreciate it. How can people get in touch with you if they'd like to?

Jason Schuster: Um, probably best bet is either Email Jason at I am a unix admin dot com because, you know, vanity dip domains for work. Agreed. Um, I'm also on Twitter and my work Twitter is Dev Ops are

Jay Gordon: us. Is that what it is? I believe so. Dev. Officer. Us. Yeah, like we'll get with the old Toys R Us. Dev Ops are us, so thank you very much, Jason. I really appreciate your time. Well, uh, we will have to do this again and talk more about ops and all the things associate it. So thank you for providing me with another nightmare for our collection. All right, Thank you. And we'll be right back to wrap things up. Thanks a lot, Jason. I really appreciate your time. You could find him on Twitter Dev ups or us. And if you have any other questions you could reach out directly by email. Use email. I'm sure that if you have anything related, Thio, Stratos and he'll be happy. So thanks a lot like a devil. Portland. We can talk. We can do this podcast together. Whatever you want. Just re just me an email on nightmares. Reach out on Twitter at jaydestro. We'll see you next week where everybody

