Jay Gordon: you're listening to the On-Call Nightmares Podcast. And every week I come and bring to you conversations with technologists who spent time on call. This week Molly Struve of Kenna Security joins me. Molly's a lead site. Reliability in New York. Kenna on It was really great conversation. I haven't had anything, really haven't been great. So I know I say this almost every episode, but it's it's really through. These people are amazing, and I'm very lucky that they speak with me now. Let's let's talk a little bit about last week, which was no podcast, and that was just because I was on vacation. I spent a little time in Hawaii with my wife, and I'll be honest with you. It was freaking amazing. You know, I, uh, I've been meaning to go there for a really long time because we have family that lives there, and it's been one of those things that just it's evaded me or eluded me, I should say. And you know, I've really started to believe that one of the biggest things that I did that really hurt my career. I think in a way it was I didn't really take a lot of time off early on and I always looked at. Well, I have to do these things. I have to work. I have to be on call. I have to take care of all these problems. And I never took the time out to really recognize the fact that I was still a human being and I needed to be able to care about myself. And so all these years later is one of the really big takeaways I have from my time on call is make sure that I appreciate my down time as much as possible, because when you do get down time, it's it's extremely important. So I've been back in New York for a few days. It's been really enjoyable to be back with my buddy Rico, the pug who's sitting behind me at my desk, over on my couch. Just enjoying his space so this week are speaking with Molly Struve who kinda came to me via a Twitter conversation the week before I went on vacation. I just was looking through the Practical Dev conversation about what have you accomplished recently, and Molly had kind of tagged onto me talking about the fact that I've done a bunch of these podcasts and I keep learning stories from people who have been on call. And she said, You know, we just made some big changes in our own call process and I'd really like to talk to you about it. So I had Molly on Who's ah, really wonderful person, and I think you're gonna enjoy this conversation. You could find her own Twitter at @molly_struve. I'll give you all the information about that in the description for the podcast. So let's get into this conversation with Molly. 


Jay Gordon: All right, everybody, welcome back to On-Call Nightmares. And every week, except for last week, because I was on vacation, I go out of my way to find you technologists who have spent some time on call and have conversations with them. Today, I am lucky enough to have met Molly's Trudy while spending time on Twitter, asking for during ah, believe was dead about two they were asking about, You know, Dev discussed, and I wanted to hear about people who saw success with their own call, and Molly reached out. Molly is a lead site reliability engineering can a security. And she joined Canada 2015 and has done some really challenging things with chemist code base implementing elasticsearch shard, my sequel and creating a better infrastructure that help Kenna grow faster. Um, you could find Molly is me on Twitter at Molly. Underscore S t are you ve e Hi, Molly. I hope that was enough.

Molly Struve: That song sounds good. How's it going?

Jay Gordon: Not bad. So I hear you like to ride and jump show horses too.

Molly Struve: Yeah. Yeah. So that's kind of Ah, second passion of mine. I know. It's kind of unique, you know? You get a lot of people intact, you just do check like, all the time, and I'm kind of one of those. You know, I I don't quite do it all the time. I also ride horses.

Jay Gordon: You also got a really interesting start and we'll talk more about what you've done intact. But I want to get started with what I found was really cool. You started an aerospace.

Molly Struve: Yeah. Yeah. So I literally went to school and I started out in software engineering. I took intro class and while taking that class, the guy who lived next door to me was taking the aerospace class, and he kept running over every day. Okay, guess what we could do. We get to build a rocket, we could build a parachute. And I literally thought, You know, that sounds a lot more fun than banging on a keyboard. And so I switched classes, took the Internet airspace class. Rest was history.

Jay Gordon: And so you spent some time in the aerospace industry, but then decided to make your way into writing code full time. It seems I just looked at some of your early portions of your career that you've got published on. And then you went on. It became kind of, ah, fulltime software developer. And then, eventually, an engineer You won't talk about Kind of, like, what led you into your first on call roll. I kind of like how you got started as, say, a nontraditional with a little bit of a traditional in their supposed

Molly Struve: Yeah. Yeah. So obviously, you know, when you're an engineer, kind of everyone who studies engineering has that same similar. You know, you get that bass. No problem solving strategy, skill set when you're in college. So after graduating, I did a little bit of options trading, Uh, cause that was kind of a family business. Um, and then, really, after two years, I just wanted to go back to building things. I wanted to go back to my engineering route, and so I quit my job. I spent three months teaching myself Web development, so I had some, you know, basic Java programming experience, but never web development. So show myself that and then got a internship at a small start up company.

Jay Gordon: Was, uh was there a framework that you felt like got you into that web development world? They said, Oh, yeah, This makes sense. I'm gonna do this.

Molly Struve: So at the time, literally, I was just kind of looking at hacker news and one night and I saw a ruby on rails, and I saw that a lot of the big companies were using ruby on rails, so I was like, Hey, that's what I'm gonna learn.

Jay Gordon: It's a very common way I felt people found their way into software development. Appears to be is that but you find a framework that really makes you feel comfortable. And I've also found this around, you know, distributed service's engineering, like using chef. But if you understand enough, Ruby, you look at it. You know, like this makes sense to me. I can build with this, and I felt rials did that exactly.

Molly Struve: And Ruby itself is just such a nice language to read and write.

Jay Gordon: Sure. So I'm working in this, like rail shop. Um, after learning or, like, how to become a ruby on rails. Engineer, Um, where does it go from there?

Molly Struve: Yeah, so I worked at the start up. It was little tiny coupon syrup is called I'll 50. And after about two years, we got acquired by group on. Okay, so that was kind of, you know, interesting going through that whole process. Now, when we join group on the kind of split our team up and put us on other projects and I lasted about six months a group on, I just I just didn't like the big company feel I want to go back to that small startup. And so that's when I started looking. And I found Kenna, which at the time, waas, you know, about 30 people. And it kind of fits the mold of what I was looking for. So you know, I started with them and that was four years ago at this point, and the rest has been history. I've been there ever since, and it's It's been awesome.

Jay Gordon: That's great to hear. So let's get started a little about your own on call history. Which one of those crews would you say you were like the first time you either we're officially or unofficially on call?

Molly Struve: Yeah. No, it was right from the beginning. So when why I joined that first little start up I'll 50. There was four developers, and because the company was so small, it wasn't so much of an on call shit as everyone took a customer service shift. And so during that week that you were on customer service duty, you not only were responsible for ensuring the APP was up, but then you also were answering a lot of customer emails. When someone like you know, this button doesn't work, et cetera, et cetera. You were the one dealing with that. So honestly, it was right from the start. I was just thrown right in there and, you know, kind of learned the ways of Ah, you know, responding to incidences.

Jay Gordon: Well, your incident response is working directly with the customer. Or were you working with, like, some sort of middle person, like like sales or someone like that

Molly Struve: right up at I'll 50 was right with the customer.

Jay Gordon: Yeah, okay. Gotcha. So you're doing really time, like troubleshooting of issues alongside, you know, keeping people when they feel like there's something wrong with your product impacting their business, calming them down as well?

Molly Struve: Exactly. Exactly. You know, for a lot of these people, it was, you know, they were trying to use our to save themselves money. And so if it broke and they weren't able to get those discounts that they were hoping, I mean for something that they're living paycheck to paycheck, and that's a super important. So you've gotta kind of be there not only to, you know, fix the bug, but you also have to be, you know, managed the user side. The situation that was very eye opening.

Jay Gordon: So then you you spent some time there, And then when you go overto, um, the group on this group on formalized, or when Groupon acquires, they formalize your on call process at all or do they kind of leave things as is? And, you know, by the time you left, you don't know really how that changed.

Molly Struve: Yeah. So when they acquired us, we they really acquired us a lot for the talent. And some are some of the software we had built in the knowledge that the engineers had, um And so what they did is they took us and they put us on another team that they had built an AB. And so that team had a super informal on call rotation. And I'm gonna be honest. We I was only there for about six months and never learned enough about that application for them to put us in that on call rotation. So I kind of had, like, a six month break right there where it was just kind of building and not being on call. Um,

Jay Gordon: then you think that there was kind of like, uh, I like to call, like, the acquisition education gap? Maybe. Yeah, and it happens a lot with organizations that you know they bring their technical debt along with them and that technical debt doesn't sometimes respect the other side that's being acquired and saying Well, you know, we understand you have this kind of mish mash process of doing this, and it's hard to teach us it. What? You have to teach us it

Molly Struve: exactly. And it's in how that brought us in to rewrite a php up and ruby and rails. And so the on call was supporting the php apple. You got Ruby on rails. Developers were just like we don't even know where to start. It appears she has brakes,

Jay Gordon: so you move forward a little and you're eventually move on and you go over to Kenna. Are you part now of a more formalized operations and on call team? If you, uh

Molly Struve: oh, yeah, 100%. So as soon as I joined Kenna early on, there wasn't a very formal process, but it probably was about six months in the starting. We actually made an on call rotation. So, you know, when the pager duty, we got theon call set up. So someone's getting buzz when things go down. Um, and that was really kind of my first foray into a very formal on calm rotation with all of the on call tools that a lot of people are very familiar with

Jay Gordon: Sure. So let's get into the bulk of the podcast, the big thing. And before we do that, because now it kind of know where you are and how you got there. And I appreciate that. And I'm sure that there's a lot more to you than that. The short career story. And of course, you've heard about the horses, which is already intrigued me because, uh, you know, I got a friend that his, uh his, uh, fairly New year. They got married only a couple years ago. She, uh his wife lives to ride the show horses. You know, the whole helmet and the the outfit. I'm always just like, how did you marry someone that knows how to do something so proper and amazing looking? And just like that, horses air. Just a interesting animal as a dog person myself. They they just thank you for having that little bitten in the bio that you share with me because I always like to hear a little bit more about the person. But before we get into a nightmare or nightmares, whichever you want to share with us, I'm gonna go over what I do it every episode is I'm gonna just go over the rules of the podcast and they're pretty simple. And I share him every time. One do not incriminate yourself because, you know, would want youto advice. Yeah. I mean, I don't know what what could happen from that on. Let's not incriminate others because we've learned in Dev Ops we should be blamed this about a record perspectives on and help us learn. Because that's what this podcast is. It's it's one big retrospective on and everyone that's been on this podcast is help us learn something from it. So what I'd really like to use hand you the microphone for a little bit and just let you tell us about a story or situation that, you know, you went through?

Molly Struve: Yeah, definitely. So I think one of the, you know, I kind of want to talk about what spurred the turning point in from us, kind of switching from the old on call rotation Thio the new on conversation, which I kind of is what I know. I mentioned on Twitter and also what I eventually I would like to write a block post about so probably about a year ago, We, uh, kinda had grown at that point a lot. So when I originally started, we were about seven engineers and about a euro. We know we're at, like, 15 to 20 now. So a lot more. And despite all the growth, we still had that single on collar rotation. So engineers going on called once every few months, which that sounds that sounds like heaven to people. That's just great. I hardly ever to be on call. Unfortunately, it doesn't quite work out that way because you're not on call a lot. You're not getting those reps that you need. And because of this, we went through a a few months where we had our s are eating our site reliability team. That kind of broken off from the main debs. And then we still had all the doves going in there on-call rotation. Well, for a couple of months, we had incidences happen. You know, quite a few of them actually ended up happen on the weekend. I'd be sitting in the middle of lunch and all the sun, I guess. Lack message. Hey, you know, these these cues are backed up or Hey, you know this this, you know, service is returning 50 threes. You know what's what's wrong. And so I'm kind of one of those people. I am always willing to jump on help. So I grab the laptop log in, see what's going on. Explain person who's actually on call. Hey, you know, this is what's going on. Here's how I would fix this and address this and usually, you know, a few hours later to find out how big the incident was, you know, kind of send them on their way. Well, despite me being, you know, happy to help it ended up taking a toll on me. And the rest of us are a team because we're kind of on call 24 7 just because of our general domain knowledge.

Jay Gordon: And then you're just dealing and toil instead of actually fixing everything. And this is the common conversation that happens on this. This podcast a lot is that that toile ends up being so visible when a team formally like formalizing things.

Molly Struve: Yeah, yeah, So that's caused the moment when we're like we kind of stopped back and said, OK, this is not working. And on top of it. So you got your s. Ari's were burned out, were not happy with the situation. On the flip side, you got the does. And they are also not happy because when they go on call, it's very stressful for them because one they're not on call a lot, so they're not very practiced. And when a situation arises, they don't know how to deal with it. Um, we're incidents fairly. Um, like, um, repetitive.

Jay Gordon: Did you have incidents that were going on and intended to be the same where there are a lot of things that were kind of always different problems like, what was the general like? Difference in the problems that people would have to jump onto that was eventually just burning out. Your team was, you know, the same or was that new stuff every time.

Molly Struve: So they they all kind of have the same general category. They're all related growth. So every time we would get more data, more clients Ah, we would kind of hit a breaking point somewhere in our stack. Sometimes it was background jobs. We get a throw, a bunch of data, background jobs. We get workers that weren't fast get back. Sometimes we'd be trying to hit the database with the ton of workers more than normal, and then the database would be slowing down. So they're all related to us trying to scale. But they kind of showed up through all kind, different areas in the stack.

Jay Gordon: So as you're you're scaling, you're finding your pain points that you're doing That whole almost testing in production is everyone likes to say exactly, and you're seeing where so So how did this start impacting individuals? Let's get on that, like, you know how many people were working on the and seeing Constant problems around growth.

Molly Struve: Yeah. So, like I said, the biggest problem was that the SRE?s getting burned up because we would be old in tow, every single one of these problems every time here arose. And the reason we were pulled in is because you got Dev's that are not on call a lot, so they're not very familiar with all the systems. They're not very familiar with the alerts. So when the alert goes off, you know, we tried to write up some documentation, but still they were not able to handle the alerts themselves so they're kind of helpless, So they're reaching out to us and we're always having to jump on. So it basically ends up that Yes, sorry team is just trying to fix and support all these on call issues. And so we don't have time to actually do our own projects and work on our own things to actually improve the infrastructure on DSO in the Andy was really no one was happy. It was It was kind of just, you know, knock

Jay Gordon: helpers are bummed out because they don't know why they're code isn't working. And the SRE?s burned out because there they're dealing with bummed  out developers while still trying to make heads or tails of the situation. And and you make something very well known, which is there's a lack of ownership in in the the incident, long term, when it takes three different teams to bounce it back and forth just to get through that individual and not knowing where the documentation lives after who's who's responsible for the post mortem on the issue. So, yeah, I could see how that's going to start really burning people down, and it's gonna be difficult. So how does your team start really overcoming this. Like, you know, you're always on call, and you're always dealing with the same problems. How do you get basically dig yourself out?

Molly Struve: So, you know, immediately the SRE team said Okay, this, like this can't continue. Were were burned out where, you know, we're not happy. We're working all the time and supporting everything. So, you know, we took a hard look at our depth teams at this point. We have three different dev teams now. A lot of times that might seem Okay, that's that's pretty simple. You got three Dev teams, like maybe you do three young call rotations. Well, anything is is we still have one monolithic application. So all three dove teams work kind of across the entire AP. Some have certain pieces they work with, but for the most part, everyone's kind of working on the same app. So there's no immediate like, Okay, good way to split it up. But despite that, we decided Okay, we need to get people on call more often. They need more reps. That's the only way we're gonna get them more comfortable. So we took on the task of splitting up the rotation biting. So every deaf team which contains six or seven deaths now have their own rotation. And one of the, you know, big hurdles we had overcome was Okay, so we have these three key deaf teams with three rotations. Now what do they Oh, how do we take this monolithic application and split it up? So each of these deaf team's own a chunk of it, and then I'm talking about how do

Jay Gordon: you I'm sorry, Your ad hoc micro servicing your support, if you will.

Molly Struve: It's exactly where we're micro servicing on call. In a sense, so And to do this, it took, you know, multiple meetings between me, rsr team and the dead managers to figure out where to draw the lines. And, you know, we drew them in in a couple different ways. We first we broke up background workers. So, you know, we have a say, Ah, fleet of 50 background workers. We took him and we we kind of put them in categories and we gave categories to each team. Then we took alerts that we had. So we use data dog for learning and we have probably 30 alerts in there that triggered her from all different things. Some, you know, trigger. If a databases under load some trigger, if a worker's backed up and we took those alerts split those up between the jeans, so then you have left the the applications off. Okay? How do you know it's a rails application? So, you know, how do you deal with Okay? Who owns three user views to owns the account settings? You know, how does that work? And we kind of split up by comptroller. We said, OK, users controller. That's goingt o team one, you know, assets. Or, you know, another controller reports controller that's going to go to team two, and we split up that way. So basically those those three ways, or how we split up and then we document the crap out of this, um, in we because we used urine confluence. So we just basically document everything in there. The teams were made well aware of each piece of ownership. And here's where it really kind of started to click. So as soon as we split everything up, Yes. Sorry. Team sat down with each team and we went into depth. Um, explaining exactly what they owned. And so, for the first time, you actually saw developers understanding what they were supporting and what they were gonna actually have to, you know, handle they They were learning the indepth nuances off. For example, the reddest team. We were showing them everything they need to know about reddest, how to talk, dress, how to debug it. And

Jay Gordon: more than just where you're putting things, there's a portion of reddest that you need to understand that it's a it's a living, breathing portion of your stack. It's not just a thing that you dumping data in and out off

Molly Struve: exactly, and that's what that's kind of. What the mindset was before is they were just they were writing code. It would interact with reddest, but then they just deploy it and they forget it now. I mean,

Jay Gordon: it is a common thing that happens a lot of times. I think with software development is that we look at these things. They're almost just like empty buckets, you know, literally, the S three bucket is almost like the best way to think about it. It's like they're empty buckets to put things in there, and we don't recognize how that will scale long term, Like when you need to start wearying an s three bucket that you've been just dumping craft have been

Molly Struve: stuff in there. Yeah, You don't know what's in there

Jay Gordon: so You start giving them greater education on their stacks. It sounds and and that improves communication overall. Correct.

Molly Struve: Exactly. So you know, they they're understanding of their systems in our system. In general, the general domain knowledge skyrocketed at that point on the Dev team about our back end systems work. Um, because then you know, we spent things like alerts. So the s sorry team was kind of in charge of building out our alerting and monitoring system. That was that was a big project we had. And he handed those alerts over to a team. We said, OK, these are your alerts. They were invested in those alerts and they actually they took him. They made them way better than we could have ever thought they could be. So are learning. Infrastructure has improved immensely because of it. Because these teams now are, you know, they're very focused on their own alerts and they want them to be actual and they want to catch these things earlier in the process. And it's the mind shift is, has been quite, you know, quite extraordinary. And, ah, lot of fun to wash.

Jay Gordon: People tend to care more about their alerts when they're on the other side of the yes, that's the thing that I've found is true. And the more I hear people talking about well, you know, your developer should be on call. The more you start recognizing that as you improve alerts, people stop saying, I don't care from one call because they only get really alerted under seriously consequent like incidents like it's not random pages because memory utilization was high and I had this conversation many times where you stop being so really, you stopped walking over with what you find to be the template, and you become much more perspective on what a situation requires, and the map that that's helps teams a lot because then, like I said, people become more attached because they know what the alert is going to be. They know why it's going to be triggered, and they know the consequences of what's gonna happen if it does get triggered. Maybe There's not going to be background jobs that are going to be processed, baby, something's not half. So it sounds like what you've tried to do is create a sense of responsibility, uh, within your own developers. And and I believe that it was, You know, someone on the show once used the term the conscientious developer. It's one of the best on call resource is you could have. And I guess, by making conscientious developers part of your own court resource, no part of the process, you've really set yourself, your company up and your teams up for success.

Molly Struve: Yeah, and it's like I said it, you know, their their ability to to take stuff and then improve it beyond what even we set up as an s sorry team has been pretty remarkable. And, you know, they've made the on call system even better. And sure, there's, you know, there's times when se r read this alarm goes off, he digs in. It might be related to work another team did, but that's okay because the team who be alert 12 they know very quickly how to figure out what that alert came from, and so their ability to react extremely fast is is great. And so then they can go to the team that made of, you know, might have deployed the code that cause and say, Hey, is what we're seeing. This is how we think you should deal with it, you know? Can you fix this? And so one The response time is a lot faster now and then to the teams are you know, they're forcing them to all communicate. And on the flip side, you have three people on call at a time, so no one ever feels alone. That was that was one the biggest, uh, you know, kind of pain points for the developers was when they were on call, they felt very alone and, like, they didn't know who to go to. And so they're always

Jay Gordon: going harder. Yeah, knowing who to escalate in those moments is very, very important.

Molly Struve: Exactly. And so now there's now there's three of them, and so that there really never alone that can easily if they don't know what's going on. They reach out to one of the other two people that are on call and say, Hey, you know, I got this alert. I'm not quite sure about it, you know. What have you guys been working on? What do you have any thoughts?

Jay Gordon: Well, you know what it sounds like you're that that team has really come together, tightened up and really found ways to know provide better reliability. I mean, that's what s sorry team is there for?

Molly Struve: Yeah,

Jay Gordon: improve reliability. So if someone is listening to our our interview right now, and you could give them some advice on being on call what would you give them?

Molly Struve: Yeah, so I'd say first and foremost when those alarm bells start going off, it is. It's super easy to kind of panic, especially. You know, someone who has her phone set. So a pager duty goes off, it's it Sounds like a siren. It could be jarring. Don't panic. Uh, one of the, you know, kind of things that are VP of engineering once said to us in a poor, small postmortem that we had, you know, we had just had an instant. Everyone was kind of down in the dumps about it felt kind of bad, and he kind of looked at all of us. And he said, you know what, guys? We're not saving lives here. If someone can't view their data for 20 minutes, they're gonna live. And it kind of puts it into perspective for you. You know, for many of us, not all of us, but many of us, you know, we're not saving lives. If if a website goes down, it's gonna be okay. Just focus on getting the back up as quickly as you can, And then after that, you know, try to figure out what what went wrong. But try to remember, you know, it's not. It's not usually talking life or death here, so it's There's no reason to panic. There's no reason to, you know, freak out about it, just do you what you've been taught to do and and problem solve this situation.

Jay Gordon: Very cool. So let's talk a little bit more about what you're up to nowadays, and we'll kind of wrap up our conversation. But tell me a little about what you're doing it Kenna security. And what kind of securities providing the customers.

Molly Struve: Yeah, so kind of security. We help Fortune 500 companies manage their cyber security risk. So the average company has somewhere around 60,000 assets. You can think of an asset as basically anything with an I P address. So computer server, even a printer. And in addition to 60,000 assets, the average company has 24,000,000 vulnerabilities. So a vulnerability is basically any way you can hack an asset. You know, with all of that data, it can be extremely difficult for companies to know what they need to focus on and fix first. And that's where Ken it comes in. So I kinda we take all this data, we run it through proprietary algorithms, and then those tell our clients what vulnerabilities pose the biggest risk to their infrastructure. You know what they need to focus on and fix first, basically what we can do in seconds. You know, using our you know, our back and databases used to take security teams of like, 10 to 20 people weeks to dio. They literally have these giant spreadsheets off all these vulnerabilities, and they have

Jay Gordon: to go through

Molly Struve: my hand and figure out which one's defects. And so we we take all that out because it's all autumn and we say, Hey, you're you're top hunter vulnerabilities. You gotta fix these first.

Jay Gordon: Very cool. Well, you know, Molly was really great getting a conversation with you today. I really do appreciate it. I learned a lot more how your team is, Really, I guess, become a lot more efficient. And it is really lead to a better life for all of you. Young. Yeah. Once those random pages that don't have a lot to a lot of action. Once they stop, you get to have a better existence overall. And I think that's one of the cool things about learning from this podcast is how people, uh, take a bad situation, learn from it and help improve everyone else that they're working with and ultimately, the user of their product, their software, you name it.

Molly Struve: Definitely. And we've all been there. That's that's the thing. Yes, we all had these common experiences, and so it's nice feel to share how we've gotta solve and work through him.

Jay Gordon: Absolutely. Well, thank you very much, Molly. you've been a great guest, and people can follow you on Twitter at @molly_struve Was there anything else you'd like to sign off with

Molly Struve: her? No, this is great. Thank you so much for having me.

Jay Gordon: No problem. Thanks so much for being part. So, uh, we'll wrap up, will finish the podcast, and hopefully will, uh, I'll beg you all to be on the next episode just like I did. Molly. Thank you very much, Molly. We'll be right back. 


Jay Gordon: Well, that is another conversation in the bag with yet another great technologies who spent time on call. Thank you very much. Molly, if you would like to be a guest on this podcast is pretty simple. You could reach out to me. It's @jaydestro on Twitter or @OnCallNightMare on Twitter. Or you could just email on call Nightmare's at gmail dot com. I need to hear your story so that we can keep this podcast going without you. There's no stories to be told, so thanks a lot for listening again. Hopefully I'll be back next week with more conversations with technologists who?ve spent time on call. We'll see you next time


