Jay Gordon: you're listening to the on call nightmares, podcasts, and every week I have cool, awesome, rad, great Luke, whatever ridiculous adjective you want to use. Well, amusing. But I have those kind of conversations with technologists who spent time on call. And this week I have Xander Grzywinski. He is part of Microsoft's SRE. They focus on the Azure Kubernetes service, which is one of the fastest growing service is that might solve God. That's really good, eh? So we'll talk to his Andrew this week and hope you enjoy that conversation. Additionally, I started working on my talk for DevOpsDays Chicago That's coming up in only a few weeks, really looking forward to it. There's gonna be some great talks there that I really hope if you are in the Chicago area, you get a chance to go and check out last week's episode with um, Matt. I had a coupon code in the show notes. Check that out so that you can save some money on a ticket if you want to go to that events, so just moving forward, we're gonna go ahead and get into the conversation with Xander. But before we do. Let me remind you that I need you to be on the podcast. And in order for you to do that, it's really easy. Just send me an email. It goes on. Call nightmares at gmail dot com, or just reach out on Twitter. It's on OnCallNightmare or jaydestro. Both easy ways to find me and or if you just want to send a comment my way, feel free anyhow, let's get into the conversation with Xander. 



Jay Gordon: You're listening to the On-Call Nightmares podcast, and every week I bring your conversations with technologists who spent time on call, and this week I speak to someone from the mothership, as I like to call it Microsoft, where I work. His name is Xander Drabinsky and Xander's site reliability engineer, Microsoft. Then he currently slings containers on the azure coup bernetti service, which, you know, as a Microsoft office weirdo. I think that's kind of awesome. Um, so previous Microsoft, he did all sorts of things with retail. He was over at Starbucks and Target, and I hear you like cat pictures. Is that true?

Xander Grzywinski Yeah, definitely. Um, if anyone is welcome to send me your favorite cat pictures on Twitter. It's It's a good way to brighten everybody's day, I think.

Jay Gordon: And what's your Twitter account? Real quick.

Xander Grzywinski It's at Xander gr zie. Why? And that Xander with an ex? I, um, thought at one point about trying to fit my whole last name on there and not really seem like a fool's errand. So just got four characters. They're

Jay Gordon: just make it simple, I suppose. Um, I, um I've had, like, my same username for quite a while, and it's not my last name. Like Best Row is just like an old IRC name. They just stuck, and, uh, I just kind of it's been easy over the years, but beyond that, let's let's get started with, uh, way met a kind of online and then eventually it work. And you're part of what I think is really interesting team at Microsoft right now. It will get into that at some point, but you're doing a lot around containers now. Is that right?

Xander Grzywinski Yes. Um, yeah, it's Ah, it's super interesting. It's, um I've really been enjoying getting thio utilize. Ah ah, super modern stack In my day to day work. I know that um, that's that's really varied for people that work in operations like Ideo. Um and so I I feel super lucky to be ableto work with technology like that that I'm really excited about. Um, yeah, it's it's great.

Jay Gordon: That's really awesome. So let's let's get started with who you are. So where did you kind of was your background? A traditional like C s education? Or did you You kind of get started with something else. It

Xander Grzywinski went well, Yes. So I do have STS education. I didn't start there. Um, so I actually I also have to your degree in digital media production. So I had a focus on, like, animation and digital video. Um, and it was tough through that that I I started working with computers more and more and and really developed an affinity for, um, software development just in my spare time and ended up going back to school for computer science. And within that field, I guess I My background is super varied. I, um, didn't start in an operations type role, you know, for a long time I thought I wanted to D'oh just heads down coding software developments, and you know like everybody at one point Thought I wanted to develop mobile app said it seemed like a theme. Um, but ah, it was really, um, after I started, I was in this rotational program at Target, where we rotated among different teams, um, in technology there, and I ended up on ah, team there. That was kind of leading the Delap's transformation of the company and started going to some need ups. And it was really the vibrance community in Dev ops and operations that that roomy further and further into this type of role. And, you know, I think a lot of credit goes to ah, Bridget crom out who is Ah, someone who's fostered the devil's community in Minneapolis, where I'm from a lot. Um,

Jay Gordon: I was actually just going to say that like you're from originally the Minneapolis. Yeah, is that right? And because I noticed you went to school there, and then you went and started a target as an intern and interrogate itself is just a part of, I think, Minneapolis Tech and as his Bridget like I think of those two. So you mentioning that and mentioning target. But both of them, in the same conversation, let to me say, Oh, yeah, and it's only because we're both in our respective homes the week of, um, Devon's days, Minneapolis that I'm both kind of we would wish were at right.

Xander Grzywinski Absolutely. The foreman has been hit me real hard this morning.

Jay Gordon: Same here. I see a lot of people attending some great talks in that area. But I worked at Buzzfeed for some time, and when I was there, I worked with some teams that were out of Minneapolis. And I know that to be really vibrant area for people to learn it. And you said it all up. Bridget and her fostering Dev ops in that area a ce faras as a community. But let's let's start talking about you started target, um, and then eventually go to a place. Call Brad Biography Now, within any of those Were you doing anything? A sw. Far as I'm cool.

Xander Grzywinski I wasn't at the time. Well, not not in any kind of official capacity. I guess so. Brand. Ah, Griffey. I was actually still going to school there. I was interning there, and it was a tiny little market agency out of Minneapolis, and I think we were probably seven people total. And when I started there, I was the only developer. So a lot of the engineering work went offshore before I started. And then I was, like, the first in house developer at the time. And so, um, while we didn't have any kind of formal process for on call in any kind of official capacity, if if a site did go down, there was something that you know I would have to do about it as quickly as possible. But I can't. You know, I can't think of any incidents there in particular where I was, like, woken up in the middle of the night. I think, you know, around cyber Monday and stuff. I was pretty busy, but, uh, yeah, overall, not not any kind of serious on call rotation there.

Jay Gordon: Got you. So then you go back to target after graduation. So you go back after, um, your what, I guess, was your internship and then get full time work on and you start working their asses. An engineer, correct?

Xander Grzywinski Yes. Yeah. So that was I joined in bear cry. It's the program is still around today, and I think It's awesome. It's targets technology leadership program, they call it which name isn't super applicable to what it is. But, uh, it's ah, you know, one of those new gravitational programs that a lot of companies d'oh where you rotate among. At the time, it was three different tech teams. I think it's too now. But ah, you know, I think for any new grad finding a program like that, it's something that I honestly can't recommend enough. Like the way that backing the exposure toe rolls and technology that I probably otherwise wouldn't it explored has really shaped my career in a way that I didn't expect and provided networking opportunities across all of targets. Just the experience was so valuable, and I know other companies do this, too, and I think it's something super worth exploring for people just starting their careers.

Jay Gordon: Gotcha on, Dhe said. Then you spend some time at Target Thing, go over to Starbucks for a little while, do some software engineering, and then where you are today presently, as Microsoft so s sorry, working on the A. K s like platform issue will along Asher. So where would you say you first started? as an uncle resource,

Xander Grzywinski That would have been at targets. Um, yeah, I was Ah, on call. They're both as part of the FBI team. Um, still on call for software that I had had written some targets Cory the eyes. And then when I joined um, the team, I guess it was like developer tooling. So we maintained, ah, targets like Chef Server and Jenkins infrastructure and get enterprise instance. And ah yeah, the infrastructure level of all of the developer tools that were used by engineers across the company.

Jay Gordon: And I imagine if someone can't deploy because there's an outage somewhere one of you, at any time of the day may have to go in and find out why they can't access a certain maybe package from or something like that. So absolutely. Was that kind of like 24 by seven? Because I would imagine target is their technical team globally. Or or they centralize mostly in Minnesota. It is

Xander Grzywinski global. So we we have Ah, I should say we get more. It's old. How that I was there for three years. So I guess I still I still

Jay Gordon: think of that way. Ah, there's

Xander Grzywinski a fairly large office in Bangalore, India, with a lot of engineering presence there. So, yeah, that that was Ah, 24 7 one week at a time rotation. You know, we had to make sure that that things like art a factory and get hub were up for engineers that were working at a different time zone than we were.

Jay Gordon: And you also had to obviously deal with, you know, working where multiple languages across different people. It's a different software that they're working with different programming languages, different spoken and written languages that they may have. And so you're working through all that while also on call. These are a lot of things to deal with with developers, and I couldn't imagine the distant nightmares, Um, and that kind of leads me into bringing you into kind of the next part of the podcast, where I want you to tell me a little bit about a nightmare. But before we do that, there's a part that I got to get out of what So every time we do this podcast I mentioned rules. The rules are very simple, and I only tell them because it's what I believe. The podcast is about this one. Don't incriminate yourself because nobody wants you to get in trouble if you triggered something or because we don't do that too, don't incriminate others because we're blameless And how we do retrospectives and three help us learn. Because that's what this podcast is. It's a retrospective. And with that, I'd love you to give us a retrospective on, uh and I'm cold night.

Xander Grzywinski Sure. Um, so I I think back to want experience a team I was on, and I won't go into any more details on that. But the rotation was another 24 by seven rotation one week at a time. Um, and the volume was so unbelievably high. Um and so I'm talking like it would if during that week, it would not be uncommon for me to be woken up 7 to 10 times in a night every night for a full week. Um,

Jay Gordon: that still use it individual.

Xander Grzywinski And ah, is absolutely it's it's tough to one function on on that little sleep. But, you know, you get into this this situation where you're you know, you're falling back asleep and your sleep for 30 minutes and then the pager goes off again. You're up for 30 minutes and back asleep for 20 minutes. Pager goes off again, and that's super A rat Ex leave schedule is very tough. And I think, um, you know, that in itself was tough. But I think the thing that really made this on uncalled nightmare, um, would be the fact that, you know, a lot of these pages would be transient issues non, you know, issues that wouldn't need engineering intervention to solve. They solve themselves rather quickly sometimes even by the time that I would get to Mike Computer to look into them. You

Jay Gordon: know, I know this very well, and in the most in time it's It's it's over subscription, if you will. You know what I mean Rank. It's paying attention to too many things when you could be paying attention to the important things

Xander Grzywinski right, And it's really it's helped shaped the way that I see monitor and going forward in my role now and how I try to implement this kind of stuff. And I think for me, the most important thing when you're setting this kind of stuff up has been, ah, a strong focus on actual customer impact. Um, and that's you know, it's It's something that's prescribed in the S storybook, and it's talked about a lot in the industry. But I think it's it's still a hard thing for teens to focus on because there's this huge fear of missing something, and I get the anxiety that comes along with that. But but really, I think it's the most important thing to do for the health of your product. And and maybe even more importantly, the health of your own college and years is to really keep the alerting focused on actual customer impact.

Jay Gordon: So you're on call and you're getting just absolutely hammered with, you know, 7 10 pages week. Oh, this is obviously impacting your sleep cycle. This is impacting the work that you can do on a day to day basis. Outside of these alerts, was there a kind of culminating moment where it really just got out of hand or something happened where the nightmare got beyond control?

Xander Grzywinski I think yeah, there was. So unsurprisingly, what starts happening when you're in an on call situation like this is you start to see rather quick attrition on the team. People leave because it's it's hard to sustain that type of sleep schedule on dhe When people leave, Um, you know, the team shrinks, and then when the teen shrinks, your your week on call starts to come up more often when you got less people imitations of its worse

Jay Gordon: and becomes even more right because you're burning.

Xander Grzywinski So the solution that, uh, me, the leadership for the team came up with which, yes, the solution was we are on call on Lee during the day, all day for one week. Um, and then the backup takes over for night hours, and then the following week we switch. So you're on call for night hours only at men during the day. Um, you're not expected to be working or come into the office. It's It's time off effectively, um, so that this helped a lot. Obviously, it doesn't address the issue of over alerting because theologians were getting are still transient. But it was a good thing to see from leadership to acknowledge that we need to start taking care of the health of our our engineers that are on Colin and try to find a way to make this better for the people that are going through this?

Jay Gordon: Sure. Was there an eventual kind of, like, holistic view with the learning problem itself And kind of an idea about how to reduce that pain, Or did you not get to see that

Xander Grzywinski happen? Um, I didn't get see that happen? Actually, um, the, uh, sorry team discontinued engagement, Um, with the group that we were working with at the time. Um, So, um, I I do think that's something based on conversations. I've heard that is on, uh, in the thought process of of the team. But at the time, you know, the stories had the pager fully, um, the team the service team wasn't involved in the on call rotation, so I think, um, you know, now that the S 30 team is no longer present and the service team is on call, I know that, um, there's some priority around making that rotation better. Um, yeah, I I wasn't there to see the end of it, So

Jay Gordon: it's actually interesting to see if you think about it because of the lack of, um, I guess a holistic plan, even with enabling s sorry. You can actually have us already. fail on you and eventually have to like unsubscribe to it, if you will, because you can't keep up. And it's interesting to think about that. And I wonder how often this happens because I've heard of other companies that have, like, taken on a sorry, But then make a decision and they go by the Google book and they go very strongly and they try to follow all those practices. And they learned that it's more than just following some stuff from a book that it's a full on culture changing that you have to actually spend time to actually implement modifications to your toilet and to produce a toil. So that s sorry, actually has a point. It's not just we're giving a monitoring team a new name,

Xander Grzywinski right? And I think, Ah, lot of, you know, like you said, a lot of companies they go by the book. But, you know, the thing is, a lot of companies aren't Google. Um, in fact, every other company isn't Google. I think, um, it's super important that if you're gonna try something like this, you have to find a model that works for your organization. You know, Google has there as are yours Staffed very well. There's a lot of people in with that job title, and you know, that's something that makes that work for them. But if you're gonna implement this at at us, a different company like, I really have to understand the problem at your company that you're trying to solve and I think maybe pick the right things from that book but really designed the model that's gonna work best for you. Um, yeah,

Jay Gordon: I think that's a really good piece of advice. Just based on the idea that you know these types of ideas around Dev Ops Arrest. Sorry. They should be prescriptive. They should, you know, come with an idea of what you're doing, what you need to kind of tinker it. You can't just go by one person or one group of people's interpretation. And that's what I think that it's all been very interesting to see. Um, I guess isn't it industry how people have taken different shots are different swings at what they think Azari is. And I really do like Alice Gold fusses like how to be an s. Sorry, um, in block post. And if you Google it. I'm sure you can find what, uh, listeners. It's really interesting because s sorry. Just seems like it's it's still bit of system men with more process. Right? And And that's good because a lot of time system men's were were left to their own devices and processes were put on them. Like I tell things like that and they conform to it s sorry itself its own kind of practice that I think that that's been interesting to see And you assume it was a bit younger than me, I guess have come into it much earlier. Like a much of more modern time When when I first saw, like, the idea of s sorry coming up. You know, I thought, you know, well, and that just a Google thing And then, you know, it's interesting to meet engineers who have come up around. I guess what you would call this modern Cloudera that s sorry is one of the first things they know when they joined kind of a an operations team. It's it's the model rather than the new thing.

Xander Grzywinski Yeah, it's, um it's certainly been interesting, you know, watching that some evolved over the past few years and how each company has their own interpretation. And, um, yeah, it's It's just been lots of fun to see various implementations of this and how cos they're trying to make operations better. Um, yeah, it's been it's been a lot of fun to watch.

Jay Gordon: So what did you really learn from that hole on call? Experience yourself,

Xander Grzywinski I think, um well, one, like I said, making sure that the focus stays on customer impact when we're designing our monitoring and alerting like nothing's more important than than that, right? Like if, uh if we're seeing symptoms in our system. Um, but we don't have data to show that, like customers are actually suffering because of that, like why? Why wake up? They know no point. And to that, I think another thing I learned that's probably the most important of all is that, like nothing is more important than my own mental and physical health as an on call engineer, Um, and designing the alerting in a way that prioritizes that I think is important, like, you know, if I'm or any engineer on a team that I work on in the rotation is tired and burnt out and defeated by the process like they're not going to be an effective troubleshooter When they get woken up, you know, it's and then at the end of the day like that really just defeats the purpose. Um and so like having

Jay Gordon: a like adding lag to this. If you just put in a lag in before you need when you're gonna have, ah, laddie response to stuff and not everyone will be lackey. But

Xander Grzywinski you know, there's a possibility. Yeah, and that's e. I think there's really that's just so important eso we had been doing in my current team. We've been implementing a new process for postmortems and Jessica DaVita. I'm going to give a shout out to her has been working really closely with us. She's uber geek girl on Twitter. Everybody go follower. She's been really helping us get this process off the ground and how we do postmortems and and really kind of transforming that and one of the, um, core questions that that she's been having us asking. Do these, you know, we're running these conversations is dream. These incidents did you have time to practice self care? That's always one of the questions that comes up during the Post Incident review. And, um, you know, if somebody were to answer no to that question, we've really got to take a look at how we're doing things and figure out how we can make that a yes the next time around. And that takes Justus. Much priority is any of our engineering systems to make sure that that are our on call. People have time to take care of themselves.

Jay Gordon: Well, it's great to hear that it's it's built into the process. If you will write your team and let's talk a little bit about routine, I mean, you're doing s3 within the ashen kubernetes surface, and it's it's a pretty out of the public kind of service, like Microsoft, and I'm not going to speak on behalf of the company. I'm just gonna talk about as a general. But Microsoft has obviously put a lot of focus on kubernetes being a big, big part of what Azure is, and so that puts a lot of pressure on your team, too, you know, keep things running at all times, but also have constantly new features, imported or features, or having security fixes put in there when things need to happen. Is that a lot of pressure on use a team now?

Xander Grzywinski It can be I, um So as your community service is actually the fastest growing service in the history of azure, um, the rate that that customers have been on board it and the number, of course that we're spinning up is faster than any any previous at your service and so that that scale definitely introduces some challenges on. And that's actually, you know, the order that I'm a part of is Azure s sorry. And we report up through as your infrastructure. So So we're actually partnered with at a chaos, not a part of their chorus reporting structure. And, um, you know, the speed at which you're growing is how we actually got started as a necessary team with them partnering with them. Um, and it's definitely been, um, an adventure, making sure that we can steal with customer demand. And like, um, you know, being that this is a public product like you said, I think we all on the team, we really care about the experience that our customers have using this way, we want our customers to have a good experience because we work super hard on this product. And so that's been at least for me a thing I think that drives a lot of the work that we do is like we we want our customers to have a good experience with it And so we want to make sure it's reliable and has up time. And, um, you know, the other cloud providers have great communities. Offerings to E. K s u k e They're good products, and, um, we want to make sure that our customers have a good time with ours as well.

Jay Gordon: Well, that that's a cool way to think about it. And I know like, That's the thing about the cloud Now the thing about because you have so many options, because there's there's major providers and they'll kind of do some of the same big idea thing. It's, you know, storage, compute, and then how you do storage and computers broken up and you know other things, and then how eventually those service is our are are utilized by the customer, but that's neither here nor there. It's just the idea of that. If you can provide experience that the customer really, really concerned. You know what? It's always working. I don't have to worry about a lot of time in my deploys or destroying and creating containers a CZ long as they're getting what they want out of it. And you know that maybe people pick you over the other cloud provider. And I guess you can take that little bit of a za team that's ensuring reliability, if you will. Your you're you're you're having an impact. And I think that's really cool. So, uh, really cool stuff. I know I I use a ks a bunch, but that's mostly because I'm teaching other people how to do it. So I think you've done some really cool things around. Kubernetes in general, you wrote some stuff about howto build a kubernetes cluster of the hard way on Asher, right?

Xander Grzywinski Yeah. So that was That was lots of fun. Did Here is ah ah fork off of Kelsey Hightower's tutorial called Cabernets The Hard way that uses ah, Google Cloud to spend up the PM's. And you know, that's a tutorial. That was the first exposure I ever had to kill. Readies. Um, when I was back a target, and it's it's cool that, like, you know, the communities have become the thing that's kind of defined my career path at this point. And that tutorial is really where it all began for me. So working for Azure now, I saw an opportunity to support that overto azure commands. And you know, it's it's not a super necessary thing, because if the concepts of the same. But I think my thought process there was that there are people who work for companies like Microsoft or others that might actually have access to azure credits. And so, um, if if azure is the compute platform that that is accessible for them, they can. They can get that those same concept learnings on Azure, too. And, you know, I I don't actually love to see one for Amazon as well. I'm sure that that might even exist. But I think, um, it's the concepts that that Kelsey has taught in that tutorial are so good and so fundamental that

Jay Gordon: I always believe in building blocks. Yeah, I really do believe in giving people building blocks onto which to build some more experience and education around. So I think that you've done that, you've given them a thesis kubernetes set of, you know, knowledge that that's beyond just spit up a cluster on the cloud provider. You're telling them how to do a little bit more, and I think that's that's interesting. So very cool. I've just carry So there any other kind of projects that you've been working on lately, or did you just mostly been on on the job lately?

Xander Grzywinski Um, mostly on the job. I There is something that I started last week that I can talk a little bit about. Um, it's It's very much in progress at this point, so sort of working on a seal I tool to manage communities clusters across any of the major cloud providers. Um, and that sort of thing exists currently. But I think what I'm trying that's a little different is utilizing the cloud providers. Managed service is like a chaos, chaos and shaky, um, and so that the thought process there was What if you could take one universal Jason config and manage clusters across multiple Cobb providers? With that, one could fit and you know each cluster in each club. Each manage cluster would would conform to that config. Um, and then you could still have the benefits of ah, managed control plane. Um, so that's something that I've been playing with recently. I'm getting as your support up and running. And then from there we'll go too geeky, any cass? Um, but ah, projects called pilot. It's on my get high profile right now. If anyone wants toe, take a look at it and collaborate, that would be super awesome. I'm super open to that.

Jay Gordon: That'd be great. I will go ahead and I'll make sure that it's in your get up profiles in the show notes so that as we kind of wrap up, just curious. Is there any other advice that you think you would give someone that's currently on call?

Xander Grzywinski Um, yeah, I think that I mentioned this before, but just, uh, absolutely. Make sure you're taking the time to practice self care. Um, and I think it's something that's probably talked about a lot in the community, which is awesome, but it's certainly bears repeating over and over again into eternity. If we're not taking care of ourselves is on call. Engineers were not going to be effective in what we're trying to dio um and so, bats, that's probably one piece. And then the other piece, which I say this because it's the piece of advice that I myself have the most trouble following, Um, getting paged, um, and and trying to keep a level head as as you're digging into the issues, I constantly have to remind myself that, like, you know, the pager goes off. I'm trying to figure out what's going on. This is not a life or death situation. This is this is work and we'll get through this and it'll be fine. Um, I know I have a tendency to really work myself up when I get paged. And, you know, several years of being on call still hasn't dulled that for me. And it's something that I'm personally trying to work on. And so I throw it out there for other people to toe say, like, take a deep breath when the pager goes off.

Jay Gordon: Well, that's great stuff, Xander, thank you very much for being on this week's episode. I really do appreciate it. They could find you on Twitter once again at

Xander Grzywinski ah Xander gr zie. Why? And that Xander, with an ex.

Jay Gordon: Very well. Thank you for being on the podcast. I really appreciate your time today.

Xander Grzywinski Yeah, thank you for having me.

Jay Gordon: No problem. And we'll be right back to wrap up this podcast. Well, that's another great conversation with another technologist who spent time on call. Xander's doing great stuff at Microsoft, and I really do appreciate him being on. It's amazing how many really cool people are coming out of the Minneapolis area. Do I really love that area? So thanks again, Remember, with God's you on the episodes, whenever you want to be on it, all you gotta do is reach out. So just send it email on call nightmares gmail dot com where you don't have Thanks again and we'll catch you next week with another conversation with the technologist who spent time.

