Jay Gordon: you're listening to the on call nightmares podcast In every week I bring you conversations with technologists who spent time on call. I'm your host, Jay Gordon, and this week I bring you Ben Helper. He's the founder of dev.to, the community for developers. You confined him easily on Twitter at Ben de Halpern, and you could easily get to his website by going to dev dot to dev dot too. And that's D e v dot t. O is a great community for sharing information and conversing with other developers, operations, people you name. It is a really great community. I met Ben via Twitter and eventually became friendly with him. And really, I'm glad that we were able to have a conversation about, you know, things that have happened at his website and how his group off people that have kept it together, work together, keep it online, and a pretty nasty situation that they ran into, You know, the usual stuff that we get into here on article nightmares. So that being said, we're going to get into the conversation in just a second. But before we d'oh always want to remind you that if you'd like to be on the podcast. It's extremely easy. You can send me a message on Twitter at on Call Nightmare or at J Destro, or feel free to send an email. It's on Call Nightmare's at gmail dot com. Well, let's get into the conversation with Ben. 


Jay Gordon: You're listening to the on call nightmares, podcasts. And every week I speak to technologists who spent time on call. And this week I'm speaking to Ben Halbert. And Ben is the founder of dev.to. He not actually the process of dev.to, but the community dev.to, the deaf community. And he Ah, one of the founders are is the founder of that Well, you

Ben Halpern: know Yeah, I have to. I have to co founders. But I was also worried, working on it for about two years before the second founder came on. So we sort of like I'm the I'm sort of the founder Also the coke and beer, like depending on how you think about it.

Jay Gordon: Gotcha. So you're the founder of the Practical Dev Network Dev Thio. If you if haven't been on it, I really do recommend it's a great place to get information about everything related to software development operations. You name it anyway. He's also Canadian, and I've recently been to Canada and let me say it's a great place. I enjoyed it. So thank you for being Canadian. I enjoy Canadian, this podcast and, uh, before you found the Devon and you are just Ah, generally a software developer who writes a lot of Ruby. That's who you are at. People confined you on Twitter at Ben de Helper. Very, very easy. That's A B and D h e l p e r Ed. And uh So let's talk a little bit about where you get started your career, and then we'll talk about little about where you are now and then we'll get into, Ah, some kind of scary but just kind of give people an introduction. Ben and I kind of met the way I think a lot of people in technology or beauty on Twitter, and, um, I think it's been really cool to see what you've done with

Ben Halpern: that network. Um, yeah, yeah, we met on Twitter. We've ah, we hung out once in real life, and, um and yeah, of course, like, I'm only kind of interesting on Twitter because of what I've done with Dev like before that, uh, you know, it wasn't as big a part of my life in the first place, but to, um But it all kind of runs together because it's about community. It's about organizing online. That's it's It's about, like all the little things we have to do to keep aware and the signals and software, because there's there's no, uh, there's no book of how to write code. It's like an ever changing ecosystem. So, um, wait, you have a lot of

Jay Gordon: below the way. Ah, lot of helpful on the way. But you never know

Ben Halpern: where that help is coming from. Like, uh, you know, you never know when you're your own ecosystem. Your own community is your own co workers, or it's, you know, somebody you meet along the way. It's really ah, journey with all sorts of different past,

Jay Gordon: and that leads us to talk a little about your journey. So tell me, how did you got to get start as a technologist? Um, yeah, So from Halifax,

Ben Halpern: Nova Scotia, Um, because you entered me is from Canada. I don't have to say that third thing, I never know, really know if Americans know where no discussion is. Um, but I Ah, yes, I got I think, my first introduction to computers. My friend's friend made a website for his band when I was, like, in junior high. I think that was, like, the first, my first introduction to the notion that you could do that that, like, normal people, can make websites. I was always like, uh, if I e trended to being kind of interested in computers and a little bit, but I don't think we even had one at home. I think we just like, you know, computers at school. It was an interesting topic for me. That was the first time I that was the lightbulb moment. I think you know, when I was when I was younger, that was very cool. But I didn't really, like stick with computers. That's like, kind of where I knew that was part of what I did. But it wasn't really, like, my forever thing from then on out, um, Isa

Jay Gordon: murder of your secondary education?

Ben Halpern: Um, yeah. Like post secondary, like, do I do in school? Um

Jay Gordon: well, post like Oh, yeah. Like in college and stuff like that was like, Did you have a traditional? Would you say I t like software background or did you study something

Ben Halpern: kind of different? No, I I originally enrolled in school. I wanted to do a degree and in marketing and a minor and fine arts, Um, as part of the like general business, huh? And so at that point, I like I had never stopped, like fiddling with websites, but I never thought of it is like my main thing, Um and s o. So, yeah, I knew how to kind of make websites. Not necessarily. I don't not sure if I call myself a code or back then, but I know it is kind of up my alley. And then as part of the business program, we had to take, um, an intro to CS just in my school, which was kind of a cool opportunity to get reintroduced to that part of of computers. Um, at that. What? I really got into it and thought about switching majors. But I wound up like, not really actually being into computer science after I took a few more classes in it. Like I didn't really, like, fit my personality my friends. I don't have any friends in computer science. I I liked it, but I didn't really like in school. And really, um, just yeah, ultimately, like, faded from my aspirations. But I took enough to think that I'm a little bit classically educated and a little bit not. So I basically piece together the rest of my degree, having, like, switched a few more times and ultimately getting to graduate. Um, upon graduation, I got a job, like in kind of like marketing, like as a start up, like like a marketing kind of job, which which I thoroughly I didn't mind the company. I kind of like that. But my job itself, I really, really wasn't, um, enjoying. I thought it was a lot of like, uh, I don't know. I didn't think I was getting to be very creative or like it was always It was always a matter of, like, proven to someone else that something would work like and including marketing campaign or something. Never, Just like what would actually work. So So ultimately, I wasn't, uh I was dissatisfied enough with that job to really start playing around with computers a lot more and really, that's when I found the You know it's stuck for good. Like I got back into coding and more of a way that fed my style. Um, I learned Ruby I was doing job and in college, and it's a small difference. But I think like Ruby is is a is a much more playful language really fits. It's my, um, my mind and even, like can program, you know, in other languages, it's always been like my favorite environment, which has always helped me just choose to, um, to use that language a lot. And, you know, when I was younger and just kind of like, you know, I only knew Java and, like, I only knew what I'd done. So it was a good new environment, I think people who have been in in Java and discovered like a more free flowing kind of playful computing environment as much as it has its downsides. Um, that was big for me and also just like me. I got to be more entrepreneurial. I started just kind of making my own applications by on websites, Um, and that's when I decided to move to New York to sort of bigger things out from there, like just, um Yeah.

Jay Gordon: And then you you start doing Excuse me, Argo. Uh, Fargo, please. She worked at or was it a consulting firm? Yeah. So that's a whole whole long

Ben Halpern: story that really can expect all the way to what I'm doing now. Uh, so the first set, I so flashback, I'm, like, 22 or 23 or something. Um, I'm totally broke. Decided to move to New York. My brother has a place here so I could crash with him until I figure something. And, um So I took a 30 hour train because I couldn't afford a plane ticket, like, just did the cheapest thing I could possibly do to get here. And, um, I

Jay Gordon: don't even I'm not even sure

Ben Halpern: why I chose New York. In hindsight, I think it's just because my brother lived here. Um, and I'm a dual citizen, so I am born and raised in Canada. But I didn't have any immigration issues. So So I'm here. I am applying for jobs. I am doing all sorts of things. One thing I did was post in, um Subreddit NYC jobs. And that's actually when I connected with, uh, with Peter Frank, who is starting this textbook exchange products. Start up, um called tex dot com. It's kind of hard to say. T x t s dot com. It's surprisingly, have to say much easier to read, um, texts dot com. So that was our company. I was sort of the hired gun kind of co founder technical person, like it wasn't necessarily like, you know, the even liked. Actually, my first job wasn't even necessarily co founder. It was just like, Hey, can you help me build this up to him? And then I was sort of brought in as the co founder after the fact, and we worked on that for a while. And that's actually the company that survived. It did sort of, well, that never really like took off it like consistently grew. But just not at a pace that could really sustain itself is a real company. It was never quite profitable pivoted to what became Argo, which was a appear to Peter tutoring kind of network, which was actually in the same, you know, same customer base, um, the textbooks to tutoring, to do things a little bit more of a, um to do things like an ever lasting good. I think textbook, the whole thing was the idea, that kind of arbitrage Amazon an offer like awesome efficiencies. But it was always a bit of a knuckle battle. Um, tutoring tutoring was starting to go much better. But all the while had been working on this little side project, which started off as the Twitter kind of the practical Dev. Um I mean, not all the while, but like for a couple of years into the Argo pivot and stuff. So as much as that was going well, all of a sudden, the practical Dave and then the website, um, deaf too. Ah, Started like, really, like, just really taken off. Like, you know, I knew it was a good idea, but I didn't, um I didn't plan for obvious success. I just hope for the best. And so it started taking up more and more of my time for good reasons, but not good. If you're needing Thio, be the CTO of another startup, I'm sure I I met Jessie Lee Who? Uh, she she was in a career change moment. She should have experience in some some marketing and management jobs, and she'd just been through boot camp. She was looking for some kind of career guidance mentorship, and I had a Luckily, I had extra things I needed help with. And she started helping me with with two and other things like that, and we clicked really well. She became, like the de facto co founder and the idea that this was gonna be a business. And then, uh, everything kind of ultimately landed at the decision for Peter to join as the third co founder. And actually, we just took Argo and re organized it to be, uh, Deaf Community Inc s Oh, so that's why it all connects back. Like I'm sort of still working on my first company even though he's pushed a lot. And now, in my whole, my role is entirely different. Like I'm literally working for the same organization that I was just hired on to, um, help, you know, spec out a textbook exchange, but because I've always felt like these relationships have been really solid, Peter took a real chance on me a long time ago, and then we sort of, you know, returned the favor and took a chance on building this all out together. Um, you know where it was? It was really having a lot of independent success. I could have, you know, kind of just quit on everybody and moved to move to San Francisco and, you know, whatever. But, um, we ah, it was really a community effort, both with the obviously the community that that was becoming, then also like my own community of books I was working with helping out. And, um so that's that brings us kind of two today. We've been we turned a ah Twitter account, um, into a thriving online community with business, um, attached and a lot of hope for

Jay Gordon: the future. So with that comes responsibilities keeping things online. And so what? That we're going to get into some of the meat potatoes in this podcast which is talking about, you know, an interesting story. But before we do that, one of the things I like to do is ah is mentioned the rules of the podcast, and they're very simple. And they're just because I like to have rules for this podcast, and they're very simple. One do not incriminate yourself, and it sounds like you're your own boss. Pretty much so. You'll be all right, I think. But let's not incriminate yourself too. Let's not incriminate others because we always believe in blameless nous in our retrospectives and and three and most of all, this is Ah, retrospective this podcast the hopeless Learn from what we've done and what you've done, Obviously. So, uh, let's hear a little interesting story from being, I guess, Home call. And I don't know if you have a formalized kind of own call, but let's talk about it. Since you have a a priest, active and thriving community that needs to be online.

Ben Halpern: Yeah, yeah. So we were looking to become more, more former formal with their on call process. I'd say we're least formal with our on call process when I'm available, you know, kind of like ah mei are on call. Process is less formal when I'm around. So more formal when I'm not so the, um you know, de facto. I feel like when I'm involved in it, it's mostly just me trying to be available and, you know, as a startup were mostly, um, hoping to generally do well with these things and this is that we're actually at a point right now. Where we're trying to redefine our process is, um ah, be a little more explicit with her sorry responsibilities and generally, um, level of our practices. Uh, but, you know, along the way, a lot of it was especially early on. Was just me trying to do the best I could. Um, and

Jay Gordon: so, you know, just people are quick idea How big is the staff? I guess you're working on all this. So including

Ben Halpern: Justin. Peter, we are. Well, I guess it Ah, we have a couple part time contractors. A couple people, like so in total. Like, if you kind of like, uh, total out the full time jobs and stuff, it's ah, it's about 10 people. So, like, about seven full time, I'm employee equivalent hours worth. That's

Jay Gordon: a lot of people to kind of identify who has to attack, what when if you don't really have a formalist process. So I guess it's a learning and yeah,

Ben Halpern: and also, like, there's there's ah, that's that's like the whole company, which is includes Ah, Michael, who does, um, a lot of support. Like non technical support uh, Liana, who does, um, marketing, You know, she handles the shop, and and, uh, and lots of stuff like that. And then so it's like, all in all, we don't have necessarily a large team in terms of, uh, sorry responsibilities. Um, and we're also, like, we have a couple of folks who are contractors abroad. And we are very Ah, probably more so than other companies of our size were like we really tried to be. Um very Ah, um, we try to follow the principle of Lise privileges as much as possible. So we, um we we really try to tighten the rains around who has access to, you know, fixing a lot of things that imply a sensitive data capabilities and things like that. So So on all the ah, I'd say the total people who do any sort of on call stuff. There's four of us just myself. Magnante. So, um and s. So that's kind of where we are. Like, I think, uh, we're growing very rapidly as a company. Well, we'll be hiring some more people shortly. I think we haven't. We've hired about one or two people in the past year, but the things they're gonna grow, So it's going to really be in evolution. I think in the next year we're gonna change the face of how we do these things. But so far it's been, um it's been just us doing our best. And luckily, I think we've made a lot of good technical choices which have help this, um, scale a lot more smoothly than I think. Uh, a lot of companies like I think we happened upon some really good architecture choices which have limited our down time. And we've the issues we've had have been specifically about, um, configuration of our service is, and obviously I think today, you know, with the cloud, like, we're not doing anything ultra. Um, we're not doing anything. You know. Hundreds of companies haven't already scaled passed to this point, so we're not having to plug in our own servers or anything like that. So a CZ, much as we can, we just try to be consistent, limit our logical errors and, um, just follow some best practices that have been laid out ahead of us. Sure, companies that came before us.

Jay Gordon: Sure. Let's get into the meat and potatoes in the Yeah, you d tell me an incident that might have happened while you are either kind of ramping up for where you're right now, at any time specific that you can really remember where you had to be. You know that, That resource.

Ben Halpern: Yeah, I think the biggest, best incident that comes to mind. And, um, and by far biggest, um, problem we've had in terms of up time, Um was this past April 1st. So it's the incident centered around, ah, attempt to do what seemed at the time like a somewhat simply propose joke. But it was a, uh it didn't joke ended a beer on us. Um, big time. And so the concept for our April fool's gag this year was to change these sites, um, Bond to comic Sands, which seems simple enough. But the, um the way we the way we serve our pages is basically almost all traffic is served on the edge. The RCN, and so not just, like not just static assets, but, like all coming and we we a synchronously load any user data like, you know what your profile image looks like? And things like that. We store a lot of that stuff in local storage. But our our big sort of essential architecture decision was that everything goes to the edge and then gets served from there. So the, um, we've made some strides to improve this, but at the time, and this was only a few months ago, um, we with all that, that with the awesome decision that that was meaning that, like, practically even in our worst moments, in terms of our database availability our server, like just handling traffic like we've always had, like, served almost all are just general traffic pages like we, the concept of the site is just It's mostly for, you know, reading and consuming like important information and stuff. And the ratio of reads the rights is always gonna be heavily weighted on the reason I was kind of initial thing. Like, how often do you read on medium versus right on medium? You know, it's gonna be heavily weighted towards read A and we always kind of oh, overly emphasized, like reed eating availability for performance purposes, which also we move over scaling, But, uh, our in order to in order to make this change available immediately site wide, even though it was just a simple CSS change. We we just don't do these, like, site wide changes all at once, very often. And, um, we had to just clear the cache And what with the edge cash like we had to stop serving from the edge. And what we thought would happen was that it would, uh, slow down. And our server would kind of have to handle a bit extra load for a little while, and then I would kind of like once the cash kick back in. That would be fine.

Jay Gordon: Sure. So I guess the assumption was the cash will repopulate. You have everything, you know, surfing the cash and everything Go back to normal.

Ben Halpern: Yeah. And we we talked through all the concerns, like we were very aware what could go wrong, But we just thought that the worst case scenario is a lot less worse than an end of being, so Okay, we thought that, like, even if we're even if we served a bit of a few errors very quickly, the, um, the cash would start serving enough. Enough of the total, uh, requests that it would go back to normal that was the that was the expectation. And what wound up happening was that didn't happen at all. And just we just couldn't Basically, the entire site couldn't serve any traffic. Um, at all are dead. Our databases locking our, um, our our, you know, throughput. We were serving maybe 20% of successful pages for white sometime and this this outage wind of lasting, like ours. And every every other time we've had the if we had server issues, they didn't affect most pages. But this time it did. Because we explicitly he cleared the cache globally. Um, and we ultimately there was a combination of a few things. Things didn't go back to normal for a while, but we had to try a lot of things, and we just didn't. We had to. We wanted to be careful. We didn't want to be overly Ah, just pulling every knob and like, forgetting what we were doing and stuff. So we wanted to be explicit about the choices we made to try to bring things back online. Um, but it also like we had to kind of do some more counterintuitive things, like typically in that situation, I would expect that we would want to, um, limit the, uh like, we wouldn't want to reduce the length of time out for our database. Our core, like postcards database. So fewer There were fewer long running requests. So, like so, like, some of the some of this simpler request could start executing, and the longer ones wouldn't choke our resources. Ah, and that was that was like a decent rule of thumb. But we won't have not really recovering until we actually did the opposite, which was, um, just make the time out, like, infinitely long and just allowing pages to take, like, 30 seconds to load. Um,

Jay Gordon: you can get your cash repopulated that. Yeah. Was it more?

Ben Halpern: Yeah, just like it's like, be the way The way things were working like we couldn't get any cash is re populated without, like, letting pages just take much, much, much longer than expected to load. And, um, you know, the whole process was kind of Ah, it was a real learning experience because I was the one saying, No, that's probably not right the right thing to do because we want to do the opposite. And, um, it actually took like it actually took. Like, basically, I said, like, that idea is propose earlier on, um, from, uh, Andy on our team. And I kind of said like, No, I don't think that's right. And so we did something else first and

Jay Gordon: set the infinite, the infinite time out. It was the

Ben Halpern: fact that, like that it was actually he had that idea like to lengthen the time out. I had the idea to do the opposite. So we tried that in a while and didn't work. And I'm I'm glad. Uh, we didn't forget about that and ultimately went back to that idea. And it's still like it still took a long time if before things looked like they were truly healthy. Um, and it was just a ah, it was a fairly brutal day. Like I was up practically all night. Kind of just like taking a look at things. Um, early in the morning, uh, Ana, who lives in Russia, comes online and she starts being helpful, But she also doesn't have thesis a madman. Privileges actually do things. So I started, Like, at that point, I half I started, like taking naps like this is kind of, like, middle of the night. Um, and things were, like, kind of okay. And, you know, it just it wasn't worth hoping they'd be okay and fully going to sleep. And

Jay Gordon: so are you on April 2nd or April 3rd of this? Like what? What a week? This is

Ben Halpern: like, you know, like, four in the morning on April 2nd. Okay,

Jay Gordon: so there's a full 24 hours after, like you decide to do this thing with the comic sands. And now this is the whole aftermath of you know, you're waiting 30 seconds for pages to load your rebuilding your cash. Your team is trying to help, but there's not what she

Ben Halpern: could do. Yeah, so we you even like weeping folks from other companies who like It's just that, like, everyone had the same general purpose advice like nobody came in with anything that was like the ah ha like, that's obviously the answer. It seemed like it just was a matter of experience foundation in the end.

Jay Gordon: And did you have to do some sort of crawler in order to get everything cash the way you needed to? Or did you let just normal traffic do it?

Ben Halpern: Yeah, we let normal traffic do it. We weren't really in a position to have a great idea of how to approach it Otherwise, um, like, we, uh, we've mapped out, like, possible worst case scenarios, but we didn't necessarily like, ah, have, like, normal traffic Seemed like a pretty solid approach. Especially because it's gonna wait towards, like, the pages that, you know, by definition, that pages that are getting traffic are the ones we need to search traffic, too. Um, so that all, like, worked out and it would have been may be nice if we could figure out a way to, um, reduce traffic, uh, or, like, reduce the load of the traffic. Will Still popular in a cash somehow. Um, and we Ah. So, yeah,

Jay Gordon: I got you. Well, you got all the way there, and you've got the servers back to a guess. A a normal space. The site gets back to normal. And do you go through kind of a public post mourning process? Well, we're, um I believe so.

Ben Halpern: I believe we were planning on sending a an April fool's email. I forget if I don't think we did that, I think Instead, we just made the email the sort of post mortem. Um, and this was not a were sort of too tired, too too tired and too, Um, and we're very tired. And also this wasn't necessarily security concern or anything, so we didn't feel there was, like, a need to get a really detailed. So we mostly just talked about how we were feeling, you know, um and and also, like, you know, being a website for programmers. Like we feel like any time we have these issues like this was the worst. But we've had other times where you just kind of had a bit of downtime and stuff, and, uh, we've always felt like if we could just talk about these things, be honest, like, just, like, relate to the community like it's it winds up being like, you know, better than if we hadn't have issues like it's like we can actually get some value, like we can actually connect with the community. So we we, uh it's a special situation where we actually can really empathized. Our users can empathize with us, we can empathize with their users, and, um and even like I I was at a conference, like shortly after and, you know, pretty much everybody I talked to who who is from the community or know what we're doing. Kind of like, actually specifically referenced the emails like that was actually pretty cool. Like, actually, like, I love hearing that kind of thing. So, um, we sort of know that that's a thing we do in these situations is that we just get real honest about it, really, Like real, real open with our feelings about how tough this could be and and, um, and then try to move on.

Jay Gordon: It's a smart way to think about it, I suppose. Just be be as open as you can and transparent that, especially if you were talking to other people who are technologists. I think you're gonna get get a lot more than if you try to serve them a line. Because most people are going to see through what is Don't worry about it or, you know, we got it. Yeah, uh, the biggest existential trip from the whole

Ben Halpern: thing was just the longer we're offline, the worst Google thinks of us and, you know, as a as a website, which which tries to serve people. Um, you know, they're like it's essentially a fully public content driven site in our relationship with the robots, that Google is pretty important to us, and we know that they won't be is receptive to a touchy feely email. So So our big concern with any of this stuff is I was always just ah, left, make sure we are available for the bots. And if we're all flying too long, we really don't have a sense of what what they're thinking, you know, like how long until they stop? Indexing are pages? Um, I know, like, you know, I'm sure they I'm sure they account. They allow for a little bit of struggle in terms of these things, but we know it will will obviously affect our search traffic if we run this too much. And luckily, though it's that's never been a problem. I think we can deal with longer adages without that becoming a problem. But that's the That's the big That's a big threat. Then that's it, like, thank goodness we everything was fine on that front.

Jay Gordon: Well, I guess there's also a benefit also to keeping everything on the edge then if you think about it, there was being able in situations where your origin may not be available. Uh, you can always make sure that you have very high. T TL is obviously in this situation, you invalidated something. Cost what? Itwas But if your origin dies, that's the cool part. Is that you? You having everything on the edge? For the most part, you know, except for maybe Cem user specific things, they might not happen, But availability off the content ultimately will be there. And if I'm right, you're you're sites, mostly all static. Uh, see it like static CSS. That's just rendered in the browser, right?

Ben Halpern: Yeah. And, um, that really is, like the the bread and butter of what we do and how we think about our sights, availability, scalability, um, and ultimately, like the the user experience, um, where we and that was a knotted like early on. You know, it's funny that this is such a big part of our architecture for scale on availability. But early on, I was not thinking about that. All I was thinking about what is the user experience? I'm a real stickler for, like performing Web pages I'm not a patient Web browser. Um, bz a patient surfer of the web, is it? Were? And ah, and I have this feeling that, like, the most important user experience detail you could ever care about is just performance like time, time for this patient load. And, um so that was like, that was sort of the genesis of the project technically, in the first place. Like, you know, uh, I'm not sure I would have taken this choice if not for this extra interest professionally in terms of Web performance. And that just wound up being a really great choice. That's always been a way for it to set us apart. Um, and it just happens to be that that's on awesome thing for availability and scale. Ah, and that's a real lucky coincidence, because if we were building, we're just not building something that's inherently hard to scale in terms of relative traffic. But, um, as we grow, we take on new challenges. We take on new product ideas, they become harder to scale. But at least we have this core concept that our our sites designed to deliver static traffic, and it really works

Jay Gordon: very cool. So if you've got any advice for someone whose own call right now working on some sort of maybe high traffic website, maybe they're working on some software that they've built recently. What would you recommend to

Ben Halpern: them? Um, yeah. I mean, I think if they're on call, especially if they're running into any issues, Um, I gotta think about just being open minded to, ah, broader ideas of how to deal with, uh, with concerns have been taking a real debugging mindset where, like, I'm not sure what's going on, but let me, like, experimentally walk through the possibilities here and and immediately be open to ideas, Not be too fixated on what you assume. The problem is, um, if your first if your first immediate attempt to solve a problem doesn't ah doesn't work. Um, you know, really start taking in ideas. And, ah, and from abroad from anyone in the room. Technical, non technical. You know, you never know where the insects coming from.

Jay Gordon: Absolutely cool. So, uh, we're gonna kind of start wrapping up, and before we wrap up, I want to give you a chance to talk about just what it is. The practical deaf community or the deaf community itself is We've talked about About what? You know you've done to build it up. Well, just tell us what people can do on the website and how they get there.

Ben Halpern: Yes. So, um, the website, it's It's like a social network for programmers. You can follow programmers, you can follow tags you're interested in, you know, like like rubio jobs, character, web assembly, et cetera. Um, we we really tried to be a more community first version of, say, a medium platform. So a lot of the same benefits of shared reading and reading ecosystems, et cetera. Um, along with, you know, read it on Twitter and all this kind of community concepts, and we really tried to build it ground up for the needs of developers. Both technical. You know, we really want to sort content in terms of its specific technical nature. Uh, it's, uh, help you do your job and to really help you do your job in a collaborative way with the broad community. And then also to just sort of feel welcome. Find, um, find friends of in the industry, especially if you're not from a C s program. or a traditional background or really anything like, if you, um if you want to develop, um, you know, a sense of community in our industry. Um, we really strive to make that a core idea what we do, we try to be inclusive. We tried to, um, we tried to, you know. So for problems that may be a Twitter has has left the secondary ideas about just having people feel safe on the Internet, sharing during their beliefs and not being harassed and things like that. So that's, you know, like we we and where Ah, we're growing. Um, we're gonna serve 4,000,000 unique visitors this month. That's not like a lot of good members, but that's just traffic. That's like more than 10% of all software developers at some point, you know, come across our sight these days, and, you know, of course, it's if you want to sort of grow your presence. I think like a Dev profile with a few, um, a few well done block post is gonna be more effective than maybe ah, good home page with, uh, with a few projects out of context and things like that

Jay Gordon: because you can always leak in your repositories with the blocks. Exactly. Yeah, And combine everything.

Ben Halpern: Yeah, and we're also just like, you know, we want to be like, friendly to the open web. We want to make it easy for you to cross post from your own blogged and maintain your economical your l if that's important to you. I don't think that's like people have different ideas about how important their own presence on the Web is and how they want to do it. But we we really like, take pride and just being good citizens. For all these words, they use cases and provide extra good tooling. Um, I've written a few posts about, like, just where we want to be now in the future. Um, and maybe it'll like those in the show notes. And, you know, and and really like, you know, also on top of this for entirely open source, um, we we want to build together with the community. We've had hundreds of contributions from the community itself, and just as a project, it's, like, fascinating. It's like we're building a social network with the community, like we're all building this together. Uh,

Jay Gordon: like, uh, getting programmers and developers help along the way. It doesn't sound so bad.

Ben Halpern: Yeah, and then long term, we want what we want to expand. What we do in terms of open source, we wantto we want to be able to generalize their product and maybe expand Thio like other communities where we actually don't need to take all the data. But we can actually replicate our our instance for different sub communities. Like, you know, like the azure developer network. Who knows, maybe they'll have their own Dev instance, which is kind of owned, owned and operated by the sort of the community or anything like that. So these are all just like, you know, I can't separate what we're doing now from what we're building towards, because it's all really important to me, um, from and I think because we're a community of programmers, I never want to, like, miss a chance to just kind of, like, talk about, like, the big, long term ideas

Jay Gordon: that you well, I want to thank you for coming on today. I really do appreciate it. Loved hearing the story about keeping that site up and just what you're doing. It's a great community. Uh, let's go to dept. Out, too, in your browser. And it's at the Practical Dev on Twitter. That's right. That's right. Very cool. Well, uh, then how can we find you again on Twitter? Yeah, then D helper. Very cool. Thanks a lot for your time. Then I look forward to contributing way more blog's on your network, and, uh, and and just reading all the great content that's on there. Thanks a lot for your time today.

Ben Halpern: Yeah. Great to have you on the platform and awesome to be on the show. And thanks a lot, Jay.

Jay Gordon: Well, thank you very much for listening. Once again, this is on call nightmares. My name's J. Gordon. You confine me easily on Twitter at J destro, you could find the podcast on Twitter at on call Nightmare. And if you'd like to be on, send a message to either or email me his mom, call nightmares at gmail dot com. Really have been enjoying doing all these podcasts. Thank you so much. Once again, you can continue to be part of this podcast to make sure it grows and continues to be something that people can turn to learn about what's going on and peoples on call experiences. So thanks again for listening, and we'll talk to you next time on the on call Nightmares podcast, where every week I bring you conversations with technologists who spent time on call.


