Speaker 1: uh, I

Speaker 2: How's everybody doing this morning? Cool. You went to Bill? Anybody who went to both. You have a good time. I think I did, too. Good morning. And Christina really set me up for something pretty cool because she decided to talk a little bit about failure at the end of her conversation. And discussing failures is actually a really important part of what I do in general. But you don't know why. And that's cool. I brought along some friends there from a TV show from HBO a couple years ago. I know I'm not being like cool and up to date using game of thrones. I just didn't see it yet. Maybe one day I will. That's cool. You don't know who I am, but I'm gonna tell you a little bit about myself. First and foremost, I really like baseball is just what I do. I love the Yankees. Silly nerve. When it comes to baseball. Sorry, it's just who I am. Also, I have this really silly dog. His name's Rico is a huge part of my life. What it's like, I love death. Uh, I like to bake and cook, and so this is me in my kitchen of small kitchen in Manhattan and try to look as much as I can when I'm home and I love music. I listen to a lot of music if you like loud, long haired weirdos playing heavy metal. Talk to me after the awesome but to talk about what I've done for a living. Uh, I've worked in a bunch of really need cos I've done a bunch of interesting stuff. It's that time new mainly just working as assistant administrator and when I say a system administrator, mostly men. Thanks. I guess that's nice, but I was a system administrator for all those really cool cos Buzzfeed Digital Ocean. I work for Dana Pie for a long time when I worked at Mongo TV, and now I work at Microsoft Man, it was a really cool experience getting there. Don't talk to you about a little bit of the failures that I dealt with getting there. Yes, yes, it is nice. Thank you, Junior. Um, so let's move on a little. So it's a system administrator. I would sit behind and I would take care of problems, and someone would say something was wrong. I would fix it. And so sometimes, even when you make a mistake and you think you're doing the right thing, you might not be. That's all right, Miss Failures pretty common on The question I've been asking most of my career is why is recovering from failures difficult? And it's because way think of failure very early on is a very tragic part of our existence. We think if we fail, it's very, very difficult to recover and do something positive. That's not something that I've experienced, and I know that there's a lot of privilege that comes with that. But let me give you one piece.

Speaker 1: I'm a college dropout. I

Speaker 2: spent only a little bit of time in school. I just learned clinics on my own because I had to get a job. And after 20 years and, you know, I've made a shitload of mistakes along the way, and that's one of the things I want to talk to you about. So I remember in school I got a bunch of these. Do you wanna know why? Because I just didn't like school. It was good at it. I didn't do really well as Faras sitting in a classroom style because I'm like a lot of people. I learned by doing just sitting there and reading books and taking tests. I always felt like I was a failure and it was very, very difficult for me to comprehend the positives and the negatives of learning from that. And then, you know, like a lot of us had relationships and, you know, they failed to and you break your heart, you move on and it doesn't matter whether it's, you know, someone love or friendship with someone that's friendships or relationships. They just go bad socks, right, and then you start feeling like This is what the world thinks of you, that you're weak, you're out of control and you're an embarrassment to yourself and everyone else, which is not really true, really. It's just putting more stress on yourself because failure has an emotional impact upon you. It's very difficult to recover from, but you could work indefinite learn and this never ending. You're gonna feel over a course of a career in mine, and 20 years have made a lot of mistakes, and that's because I ran his assistant administrator and one of the things that I've kind of lived with his assistant administrator is always being aware that there is a critical path is the way I like to think about it. You start to finish of how in action on the Internet works. You essentially want a packet of data to go from one place to another. Correct. That's the end goal at some point, and we talk about this in the world of that. Sorry start reliability, engineering. We talked about how you know what you know. What's great about 99.999 Is that that extra 0.1? Nobody who ever recognized. So to think that perfection is the only ideal situation is just not comprehensible. We're in a point where failures a portion of technology, and it can also be a huge portion of what you used to learn. And that's kind of what I want to talk about so falling down. This is a little story I want to talk to you about. I fell down recently, happened twice and not physically fell down, but I don't with failure in a public setting, and I embarrassed the shit out of myself. But it was my fault, and I would explain it. So I met a talk, and it's in I don't need It was Amsterdam knows? Yes, yesterday was in Amsterdam, and I had to do a technical talk and heard you Sure you heard Christina mentioned we went to all these really cool cities. We didn't technical talks all over the world. I got to hang out with all these really cool people, and I got to write talks. So I got to write this really awesome talk the talk ups around 17 cities across the world, and it was content that I wrote. And for me, that was huge. Uh, first time I did it. Boom. Not a problem. I heard from a whole bunch of people. It was going great. Did the talk across planet I'm loving. I get to Amsterdam. I am prepared. Like I have done all the work get on stage. You know, Didn't I think about 10 dry runs to get this right? Because Microsoft was recording this for our website so that you if you want to go check it out later, I'll talk to you all about it makes you get the link. But I teach people how to migrate from data center application into the cloud. One of the critical parts about that is, you know, explaining the introduction. Well, here's what happened in the 1st 5 minutes. I'd like to do this. I don't speak German, but I said Morgan in German. Excuse me. And Doctor said good morning in Dutch and everybody obviously didn't get it. All right, Uh, I'm from New York. Could everybody just say Hey, how you doing? They all laughed. I felt great. You give me a how you doing? All right. Thank you. I'm in New York. I don't go home till tomorrow. So I, uh, get the room going. Feel warm? But there's maybe about 400 people in this room and then get through my 1st 3 minutes, my interest onstage. And then something happens. Something that I didn't prepare for. I got hit in the face with something that I never expected. I would have gotten hit. Have you ever been in a room? And you smell something and it is found and recognizable and so foul that you start to feel almost sick. Like like someone is covering your face with this smell. in the 1st 5 minutes of his technical talk. While I'm being recorded for the world to see home. This putrid smell starts coming, and I notice it. So I finished my intro when I'm being recorded, and I can't do this, and I can't react. Because if I react to this kind of moment, then I'm obviously losing something for the talk. So what happens next? Uh, I'm gonna just show you this real quick. I want to give you an example. Do me a favor. You too. YouTube. I want you to take your shirt or your fingers and hold it over your toes. Imagine you're doing the most incredibly difficult traffic technical talk you've done in a while. You're standing on a stage and that's what you see. And you know why? What do you do? I mean, I can't just Oh, shit, I gotta go. And I just start running because I can't run off stage. Because when something terrible happens, I can't stop. I can't not continue what I was expecting to do because I believe this. And when I do technical talks, I look at them or what I did Any talk for that matter. I look at it almost the same way that a cloud company makes an agreement with the end user. And do you know what the term s L. A is service level agreement. So every time I take a talk like this talk I'm doing today when I say yes, I'm going to do the talk I enter into what I believe is a personal service level agreement s l. A. With the people that I walk into the room with. My goal is to make sure that regardless of any variables that I cannot control, I provide to you the information and the talk that you all expected. Now think about that. These are the things we deal with in life. And it happened again. Let's go back almost two weeks ago, I'm in a lovely, lovely Stockholm, Sweden. Beautiful, beautiful city. Anyone ever been there? I recommend it anyhow, so I'm on stage. Same tour, same demo. So during the stink factor, sure got to get through my demo. I was able to rectify the situation by realizing that whatever the stink Waas, it's not my fault. It's not my problem. I can't do anything about it if I react, we're gonna notice. So in a lot of times when, let's let's face it apart, I don't wanna make it ridiculous. But it was far and I noticed it, and people in the front row noticed it in eventually in the notes that I got comments on the talk someone route awful smell 1st 10 minutes and waited off the score of Mont Talk was impacted by a stink that I had nothing to fret window with in that school, and I recovered that. But then a couple weeks later, stop home, go to do the same talk Internet sales in the room. So in the first case of failure, what did I do to recover? I was able to just recognize that there was an issue triage the issue in my mind and say, Well, if I continue along the path of currently down and avoid the stink in my mind, but continue with the path that I've decided I want to go down to, then I'll be able to recover and continue. Now, In the case of my failed talk and stock home, I was lucky. What I do is on the back up slides now, in this case, I don't want to get technical talk today, so I don't really need backup slides. Tony doesn't show up. I could do this talk without him. But you know what? I can't do a technical demo without the Internet access toe. Create a container image uploaded like it's not possible. So what I did was I just said to everybody you know what? This is how it's done. When they just showed them slides of the representation of it said, This is a failure. This is what happens in life. And no matter what I would've done today, this Internet was probably gonna fail. And this talk was gonna go this way. And I want you to know that that's fine, because you can't prepare for everything. And this man, he doesn't work for the company we represent. But you know what? This guy has got something brilliant to say. His name? Vernon Vogel's. He is a big time person over an eight of us when it comes to making decisions on the way technology runs for the Amazon Web search. And he came up with this. Everything fails all the time, saying, and when I first heard him say these words. They made such an impact on me. And it's not because, you know, in life things just failed. It's because if you prepare for failure before it ever happens mentally and not necessarily having all the answers, we could create run books to help recover for issues that happen, we can do postmortems and look at things, make retrospectives of the decisions that we made along the line. But the most important part that we always do is continue down the critical path. Continue to get packing a from point a over the point b so that you complete what you're doing, Mickey A. Sell it. And so that's really what I believe in. So, uh, I like this person. Charity Charity is a CEO of a company called Nicole, and one of the things that she's really put out to me is that in the world right now, we create all these dashboards and all these dashboards are going to tell us when we're 100% right, fair and everything's working. What? No one really truly has a fully green dashboard. Failure is always occurring, and we just can't see it and one of the things we could do to prepare for that is to make decisions on how to take action, take action, that that's a really cool thing to think about. And you might think that you're a fool. You know what I do? Why do I have to take this action? But when things aren't necessarily, um, But if you were lucky, Tony says it really want you'll remember these moments failed because they will bring you to the other side. And I want to give you some examples. In technology, we run tests for Coke. You run those tests, we look at the output and then we deploy. Something could happen along the line that you can't necessarily prepare for. You've written tests, you've gone through all the deployment. You saw the code go online and all of a sudden dealer, and then you think I thought I did everything right. But there's unexpected occasions that happened. Things are going to fail, and the only thing that you could do it's really pivot and continue. So let me ask you a question. Yet her lost the job. Have you ever been told unnecessarily that you weren't doing the right thing. That's okay, because you could learn from that. You could grow from that. I've definitely been a position where I am. I sat across from someone maybe half my age telling me that I wasn't good enough writing tests for code. But I never let that get me down. I knew what I was good at, and one of the things I was good at was telling people stories. And that's what we get from failure. We get stories and were able to take those stories and present them to one another on how we can approve. Because if you think about the story behind Dev Ops, I say this story about Dev ops. Anyone familiar with need breaking everything? Um, sorry. Uh, who's familiar with Develops? Who says The idea that technology isn't just about isolated yourself, It's about culture, and it's about being together. It's about communication. And when you fail, sometimes it's okay. Did you get to do retrospectives on that? You get to grow and learn. So I failed. The time fired, I watched one of the world's biggest websites not come online. I'll take quick story about who has ever been above sea dot com. Remember that dress? Couple colors and I don't have any slides for this. It's a story. Um, I was at home and I had spent the whole day in a data center wrapping servers, and earlier in my day, a bunch of llamas got loose in Los Angeles and alerts happen. I'm on the floor in a data center fixing this thing, and, uh, okay, everything goes back. Online sites online, Great go home pouring outside either in New York City, whether it's weather, whatever and get a page, you know, getting pages when you're on call. That could be true back and this page said, Oh, every single Web server is now a 99% utilization, and I think rate and my wife turns to me and says, Is this because of the dress? And I go, what press? And it turns out there was this dress that was nobody could tell what color would. Waas was either blue and black, black and gold. I spent my whole day and night about maybe two or three in the morning, fixing this thing and wanna know why I spent the whole night fixing it. It was because my boss was afraid of failure. My boss wouldn't trust the auto scaling service is that Amazon provide. And this was early on when they were really the only ones provided are a scam. So rather than trust the systems that put in place to help improve him, he let failure run his life. And because of that, websites stayed down longer. Applications took longer to get up and problems occurred, and it really wasn't his fault. He came from an old style of deployment and old way of thinking. But he really opened up my ox. You're gonna fail with technology. But that's okay. An easy to instance, or a V M or whatever container these things. They're not supposed to stay online all the time. They are meant to fail, and they are meant for you to build and recover from. And I want you to think about that in the context of a career. In the context of a career, you're going to have moments where you're succeeding. Things were never gonna look better, and then maybe the money runs out or the business pivots and makes a decision, and it's up to you to figure out how you are going to be succeeded. And now you could think Well, you know, J, you've been in this for 20 years, or, Jay, you're a white male or all these things that are absolutely important variables. But I'd also like, Do you consider the fact that failure occurs to you no matter who you are in life, any position, any gender, any role in life that you take, you're gonna have a moment where things don't go your way. We're not gonna do what Tony did back here. It's just, you know, I'm gonna find it cause I love that one where I just look, I can't just stop pick up and run, because what does that do for any of you? If I'm in this talk and all my slides break, what do I do? Do I pick up and run and go? No, because remember, that s l. A I told you about. Then I'm letting you down. I think about that sickness away for yourself. Find moments because they can end and everything go black. And you might not know what's gonna happen next. But that's okay, because sometimes you're not gonna be prepared. You're not gonna know, And that's fine, because you're gonna find your way. Prepare yourself to know that failure is a part of what you do, and you will almost never let it overwhelm. That's my piece. That's my feeling. And that's how I've been able to go from crying over machines that wouldn't come on line, wanting to tell you never quiet for a machine that will come on line one. It's okay, you can reboot it or you could find a replacement. It's not a piece of it. There's nothing organic, doesn't have any emotion, doesn't care if you're frustrated. It's still not going to work. So your goal is to recover from very failure and to continue so always returned down. That critical path is like I said, when the end of the Sopranos happened, we were left with this black screen and we weren't told what was gonna happen after we're just left and we were supposed to assume so I like to sometimes say, you know what? I'm just gonna assume that sometimes the black screen's gonna happen to me, and I'm gonna make sure that I got some plans and backups to be able to pivot. So if that means that you're currently in a position where you're not really sure about your employment, here's a recommendation. Take 50 bucks and we can put it somewhere. Hide it for 50 bucks a month. Built some sort of backup in case. Like I said, they run out of money or start talking to people Network. Prepare yourself for when the failure occurs that you'll have someone to always confide in about these issues. You know, finding industry peers, mentors. It's just so important. These people will help you. Failure. So that's really it. This is my talk. I really I wanted to do this organically. I didn't write it down because these are things that I just feel, and I feel that feelings are best conveyed without being written so statically because this talk will continue to grow and change with me, just like how you're all gonna continue to grow and change as failure occurs and you learn to pivot group so that I didn't really expect to be able to do this kind of talk somewhere on. I'm really proud that we were able to get a group of people together on, and I was able to talk with you. And, uh, if you'd like to continue talking to me, I've got all this up. They got this information. I learned a lot about failure in the last a few months from doing the podcast. And if any of you are currently on call in technology, you will help me learn from your family. I interview all and any of you who are currently on call if you want to be on my podcast symbiote gm on Twitter. The point is to educate through stories and tell everybody that even when the worst happens, we can overcome and achieve, I, like her, said, I'm a college dropout from Staten Island whose dad died really young. And I managed to get through a lot of difficult moments that brought me here, that I'm able to talk to you and you're just being here. You solidify white, overcoming from failure occurred. People can grow, so thank you very much. And that's all I got for you. If you want your check, be around all day and especially yes, I know those are very, very

Speaker 1: my next you know. And if you want to know a little bit about what's possible,

Speaker 2: Okay, so the next session's starts just after Levin's this time short break

