Speaker 1: you're listening to the on call nightmares podcast. Every week I go out of my way conversation with technologists who spent time on call this week. I've got another great conversation with Jacqueline Green. Rod. Jackie was someone that I met as De Bob staged Toronto and way had a great conversation, decided Let's let's bring this over to the podcast and Jackie, someone that's worked in Finn Tack and Media and currently do stuff in E health working at a company called Med Stack. So let's learn a little something from Jackie today. But before we do that, of course I'm going to beg you all. I'm going on vacation very soon, and I will need a couple of interviews before I d'oh. If you'd like, please reach out. It's on Call Nightmare's at gmail dot com, or you can send me a tweet at on Call Nightmare or at J Destro. So anyway, let's get into the interview with Jackie and learn a little something about someone who is one of Canada's top 30 under 30 developers. Pretty cool. So we'll be right back with our interview with Jackie. You're listening to the Uncle Nightmare spot gas and every week I go out of my way somehow or another fine people everywhere in the world or they find me. Thio have conversations with technologists who have spent time on call. So I was in Toronto recently, and while I was there, I met Jacqueline Green Rock, who is working in in tech media E health at Meant Stack, which is a digital at platform for the health care industry. And, um, you're one of Canada's top 30 under 30 developers, huh? Yeah. So can I call you Jackie? Or would you prefer Jackal?

Speaker 2: Jackie Surface.

Speaker 1: Cool, Jackie. So, um, you've been, you know, bursting onto the scene out in Toronto. So it seems with your big talk at Dev upstairs, Toronto. And, um, you know, it's it's pretty crazy to meet someone. Um, who's done as much as you have, uh, so quickly. And I was looking over some of your your achievements already, and I realized while you graduated high school in 2010. Um, so you know, that's it's pretty amazing what you don't already, but I'm gonna let you kind of introduce yourself. Not only are you one off the people I met a devil's days, but you're just interesting person. So tell me a little bit about what you've done and how you got here.

Speaker 2: Sure, it's starting from like where I started with my car. Okay,

Speaker 1: give me. Give me a little bit of an introduction about how you got started in tech and and your first job that you worked on call.

Speaker 2: So we actually that's running jokes that I kind of stumbled or face planted my way into tech because I was supposed to be in music originally. The truth, sire, was about middle school. I guess I've already talked about when I graduated, so I don't really need to worry about dating myself here. But I started in middle school doing some html lot of forum. I really liked riding, and I want my writing to look a lot prettier. And then the site that I wrote on went down. So I kind of just made my own site and then promptly forgot about this for a few years to pursue music. And, um, I called my dad kind of realizing that I call my dad realizing this isn't really what I want to do for my career. Can I switch to that like, computer writing thing. I used to Dio and my dad. He's a math and science major. He just kind of laughed for about five minutes ago, asking me if coding is as viable as a musician. And I was like, Yes, pretty much you laughed for, like, Miller five minutes, then said Jack, like whenever you wanted to you, I support you. So I went into studying computer science. I got a call up job, um, worked as step ups, right? It right from the get go and absolutely loved the work. Since then, I've been handed a there

Speaker 1: s so this is you know, uh, I guess while you're still in school, you get the coop job, eyes that right. Is it kind of like an internship that we,

Speaker 2: uh

Speaker 1: okay, That's why I figured I didnt go up back in high school, So I thought that's why would it be? But I just wanted to make sure that people on the other side who may not be familiar with it s so I'm guessing you went Thio work a little bit full time and then all suspect full time in school. Um, within your cops. I kind of education. Correct. Yeah. Cool. So, what kind of music were you? Ah, you interested in pursuing before you made the change?

Speaker 2: Um, I actually had a full ride to do jazz music and playing trumpet.

Speaker 1: Wow. Wow. So, I mean, it's interesting how many creatives you meet that get into technology because I believe that one way or another, we're building things that really require what sense of creativity per se. And, you know, you're building your creating, you're manipulating, and then you're you're taking critique on that. And so, in a way, you know, it's it's understandable how the arts need, ah, many people to tech.

Speaker 2: It's one of the first things that I loved about tech was specifically develops. You got to see the big picture. But there's a lot of room to be very creative and to try new things, but also a lot of kind of rules that you could follow. And I liked having that guidance, but also the flexibilities

Speaker 1: cool. So you get the job with Coop than you. You finish school and tell me Oh, you didn't You

Speaker 2: know, I'm sorry

Speaker 1: that that's fine. Excuse me. For for being a son assuming, uh, because I made an ass out of me. So you move on from school, I should say, and you start working full time and, um, tell me about where that kind of lead you.

Speaker 2: Well, I started. Yes. The very first line was, Do you want to have ever develops? And they told me little bit about both. Didn't understand them. I went straight to Dev Ops for the big picture of you and I stayed there for just under a year. Um, and then I moved into the media space where I was the only operations person in our company at the time. Okay, so doing well, I guess the first job was a lot of kind of data centers and using things like the Syrian Zen center. On second thought, it was all in need of us. So learning

Speaker 1: crab? Yes. You got an early jump in Good,

Speaker 2: uh, learning cloud building pipelines, learning docker, maintaining production Pretty much anything that we needed from an office person.

Speaker 1: That's that's really great. So at what point at this, uh, in this role do you end up going into an on call rotation?

Speaker 2: I actually have never been on a formal rotation. So I'm supposed to go into my 1st 1 Yeah, it's always kind of been like that. Well, you the only person who's had to do it. So just if something goes wrong, we need you and your own call.

Speaker 1: Yikes. So how's that kind of impacted you as faras like, uh, I guess you know lifestyle. Like being in that, you know, every day, your own call, pretty much because you're the person who understands how something works. How do you make that fit into you know what you do outside of when you're working?

Speaker 2: That's a really good question that I don't think I've actually really thought about it before. Um, really? Yeah, like, I guess the biggest influence was that it meant that when I was building things I want to build them in such a way that they wouldn't call me back later. And when I worked with our jobs, same thing. So

Speaker 1: so other than so building resolutions before the problems ever really seemed to happen, huh?

Speaker 2: Suppose a goal didn't always work, but yeah,

Speaker 1: So one of the things that we do on this podcast is try to go over stories and listen it nightmares that have curd. So one of the things I asked you to do basically, is to listen to me. Tell the rules first. And the rules are very, very simple. There are only three of them. And I ask that you you abide by them. Is that okay?

Speaker 2: That sounds good to me.

Speaker 1: Cool. So the rules are Do not incriminate yourself. It's Nobody wants you to get in any trouble. Don't incriminate anyone else. Because in Dev ups, what do we say we are? We are blameless and help us learn. Because this podcast, it's one big giant retrospective. And so I want you to provide us a retrospective on an incident, and maybe you can help us learn from it. So with that, I'm gonna let you kind of take it over here once. Tell me stories.

Speaker 2: All right. So in my 1st 4 month ever in fact, keeping in mind that I've just started working Um, I actually got a guess. The missing important detail, That one. My friends, convinced me to apply for this job, but I didn't feel ready yet, so I just started working. I didn't really know things like, what is production? What have you in some kind of learning it on the spot. And we had this very unfortunate series of events that happened where, um re hides Thio. So our team was roughly, I think, four people that knew what was going on in production operations layup. And

Speaker 1: what kind of environment would you say, if you don't mind, Just that. Just a sprinkle some details in there,

Speaker 2: um, off to talk my head. I think it was roughly 200 virtual machines that were all manually configured and managed. They were in things like, Yeah, they're in things like send center and be fear. And we had those living in a data center. Um, give us a call at the time. I don't really know much more detail than it was in a data center somewhere.

Speaker 1: Sure, that's what.

Speaker 2: Yeah. And so when we were making changes, we were copy paste. It was like three of us going through copy, pasting the one line change to kind of make sure we're doing it and hand holding it through. Making sure went fine. And that's winter of grades, I guess. Looked like All right, Yeah. Ah ah. Nde So really early in my career, What happened was we hide two of the well, this the senior ops guy and our senior architect for both going on vacation at the same time. And when it's been planned, it was gonna be fine. But the third team member actually resigned and left the same week as they were going on vacation. You could probably see where this is going.

Speaker 1: Yeah, Jackie's all alone is essentially with all the brand new work.

Speaker 2: Yeah, and I'm just like, this is a bold the world. I don't know what's going on, but I'm trying to learn. And, uh, just days before everyone left. What happened with are you 80? Environment just dominate over, um, say dominoes. He had some redundancy set up. We had failures, but something happened. I don't remember the details. To be honest, something happened. Such of the fail over is just took out. They're done. And seeing just everything went down for your i d. Thankfully, thankfully, not fraud. Sure. Uh, 70 was toppled over and we had a couple of days where our senior Devon architect was here and he was doing his best to kind of give me a road map was like he was 60 to do. Like, you need to get the load balancers back up. And I'm like, What's a load balancer? He's like about it for now. Just, you know, this is how you do it. Just go. Um and so he left me This kind of, like, checklist of things to do. You and both the people, They're on vacation. We're completely on the other side of the world for this week that they were gone. And, um, I'm kind of on my own trying to figure out how it's going. Like I stopping some. Deb's here in there like he do you know anything about this specific service through this deployed? They're kind of like, No, that's the ops job. I don't know what that is, but I could look at it. You can look at it with you and maybe help. So we're all kind of feeling like we're blindfolded shooting at this third board, hoping we're just going to hit the boards. Not a good feeling.

Speaker 1: Yeah, it's tough in and you're basically trial by fire, is it? Sounds like you think it's funny you know, I don't have a lot of conversations with young people much lately that get into businesses. That's trial by fire, quite as much. And that's because there's been so much organization and practice and procedure put into place. And so it's so rare that someone gets this whole, you know, everything is completely blown to shit. Let's sit with figure it out. So these stories on and this is pretty, you know, within, I guess. What? The last five years, right?

Speaker 2: Yeah. This Yeah, I think this would have been 2013 or 2014.

Speaker 1: OK, s 0556 years. So we're talking about a time where one organization that hasn't made that full kind of transition over to Dev ops, um still was, you know, providing you with an experience that I'll be honest with. It wasn't very far off. From what you know, maybe in, like 2 4003 what a person like myself would have to deal with So that sze interesting to hear that you know, that kind of old waived when things still kind of leads and it impacts people at every stage of where we are in Dev Ops so I bet that's really interesting. So why don't you tell me a little bit more like you're dealing with this? There's people on the other side of the freakin world. Some other schmuck who's supposed to be in charge says, Yo, I'm out of here and quick. And then we got Jackie, who's like you're about four months in. I don't know this stuff. So you do know? Yes. But But how are you personally like this? Your first foray into this? How are you?

Speaker 2: Home? And I was terrified, To be honest, I was talking to my manager in the CEO, and I'm so grateful that they were very They were very supportive. They were kind of like, You know, we understand if you can't do it. But for our sake, do your best. Just do whatever you can, and that's okay. Um, I think I was working like 10 a.m. 23 a. M. That entire week. Just trying to figure everything else, uh, kind of another

Speaker 1: that were most of these environments, like clinics or windows. Where were the in your V m world? Where there was

Speaker 2: They were Lennox. Yeah,

Speaker 1: And how much limits experience that she had prior to this obscurities

Speaker 2: one or two semesters of doing it for my computer science and show classes.

Speaker 1: Gotcha. So, you know, not a lot of like production. And so you're you're learning the end where you're learning about infrastructure. You're learning about Lennox all while dealing with people I would imagine. Tell me. Yeah, What kind of business was the specifically that and what were the customers? And what kind of impact would you you say? Half of that,

Speaker 2: but it is intact, for it's hard because I didn't quite have full visibility intimate, but we were in wealth management. Okay, again, I'm grateful that it wasn't production. It was your i t. So the impact was really that they're like, we can't test the upcoming futures, but we still needed to give them that access. It was still pretty critical problem.

Speaker 1: Sure. So this is an internal, an internal system that is obviously part of your company's ability to order the company to Tom's ability toe to deploy to be thio, ensure things work before they go to protect.

Speaker 2: Yeah, And it was a pre prod, so it was kind of like our client for actively using it to make sure that they were good with the futures before they go live,

Speaker 1: Actually, like a little bit of canary testing. I see. Yeah, who? So, um, but let's get a little further in. So, you know, I understand you. You're talking to these, uh, these people within the the business I would imagine because you're also serving the company is a customer. And you're that person. That's I guess, having these conversations internally and telling them what? This is The situation, correct?

Speaker 2: Yeah, I was giving

Speaker 1: this. How do you formulate? Because you're so early in your career. Like a common set of language that you felt comfortable with or were you just learning?

Speaker 2: I was just learning. I was, ah, trying to figure out like I'm like, what's a W d w o? It's a data warehouse. Okay, I'm talking to the doves. I'm pulling in. Anyone on the floor assumes I just can't find what the next time forward was. You know that. Yeah. I was giving direct updates to our manager as well as the CEO, and I was also giving updates to our clients, which was pretty scary at the time just cause it's like, you know, I'm doing my best. This part's up now. This is the progress we're making. Now I'm going into this part, so I'm gonna go quiet again. Well, I'm tryingto figure out what's going on.

Speaker 1: So how long? So what was the eventual resolution? And how long would you say you a tea was offline until it finally got back to regular service? Who?

Speaker 2: Ah, full regular service is probably about seven business days. I got it up to the point that they didn't feel like it was a fire by the end of the week. But I'm sure the off steam came back and was like all these things to get changed. Like right now it's come up, So it's kind of just fusing it together.

Speaker 1: Seven days? Yeah, you get it back in seven days and no, let's talk a little bit about what happens after. So after the whole incident occurs, what's the first immediate thing that your team kind of does like? Did you really have a formal quotes mortem, or were you all kind of learning how to do that?

Speaker 2: This is a little bit colored by the fact that I was very new, so I kind of retrospectively looking back and defining. But we did have a big war room meeting and kind of go over what went wrong? What happened? How do you make sure this never happens again? And some really big things that came out of that were we pulled in felt stack for configuration management. So we weren't gonna be manually managing things anymore. We talked more about, like having, ah, of image templates that we could have Something is ready to deploy. Talked a lot about having proper documentation. Things like, um, that's what I want are being a little deploy automatically you're using. Like we think we use run deck and Jenkins to help us start doing things after that. Yeah, Yeah. Huh.

Speaker 1: And it sounds like it really pushed you all to talk a little bit more.

Speaker 2: Definitely. Like this company didn't do things like stand ups at the time. It was very much so. You know, everyone kind of takes the work and they go do their work, and then maybe we'll talk about it. I think it was once a week.

Speaker 1: You So how did how did you do this. If incident kind of have a a long term impact on the way the company kind of worked as a team, would you say what did open up new forms of communication? Did it create new ways? Work?

Speaker 2: That's really hard to say. Um, e would say, or maybe four months longer, which isn't the longest time to be able to see these changes. Sure that something's we pushed harder for. Like we pushed a lot harder for having all the code and repositories. So there wasn't anything getting deployed from save somebody's machine. Mmm. But, um, I guess for me being able to see it, I didn't see too much that, like, we started trying to talk more regularly. And like I said, he pulled in the configuration management. So I don't know how much the company changed after.

Speaker 1: Sure. Got you. But let me ask you a little bit. So what impact do you think that this what impacted this kind of incident have on you individual? He intact because obviously, like, looking back, Um, how did this affect you? Is someone that eventually, you know, would go on to be a really skilled technician, a person that can learn who learned a lot became somebody that no longer was struggling in these moments. Like what? What can you say that really shaped? We went from there?

Speaker 2: Oh, I like. I think I took a lot of really key things out of this. One of the first things this documentation. It's important. We need to be ableto share and not have these acknowledge silos places there. Two things. But those were two things that came up right immediately. Immediately. Three. Importance of having all of our code and repositories and deploying like, stable and pushing and having consistent environments for all the other things that came out. Um, yeah, like not doing manual deploy ese having a beautiful images. All of these were things that I think I learned very, very quickly at the beginning. Even I might not have had the right words on the understanding of what the implications were. Yet, as I continue to go through my career and I saw these things, I was like, Oh, this is it. This is what it solves that problem. So I don't have to do it again.

Speaker 1: Early groundwork led to you getting better information that grew you as a technologist. If you put

Speaker 2: definitely. I think it really she for the rest of my career went,

Speaker 1: that's that's really great to hear. So I know, um, you're young into your on call career, but, um, it sounds like you're going to a formal rotation soon. But let me ask you question If if you had to give advice to someone that's on call, what would you What would you give to that? What info would you share?

Speaker 2: I think one of the first things I want to say the flies see on call as well. It's just generally working. Overtime is make sure it's visible. So if you're doing work, especially like if we do something like on call, we have a tendency to do, like six hours straight of. I just need to fix this. But we might kind of say, Here's the resolution that we reached, but it's not always clear how much work went into it, and if we can be visible about that and start tracking how much time went into it, it might help us to find those root causes and pull those into sprints in the future or be able to actually tackle it properly. Um, I think that's really important. I think another one is. If you have questions, just stick up. Like if you're going into an on call rotation and maybe there's something you don't understand it. It's always better to ask before it, even if you think it's a silly question instead of trying to learn it at like 3 a.m.

Speaker 1: Yeah, I most degree and especially early on, if you ask questions before you actually start the rotation like, Hey, where the docks for these particular projects, If there are no docks, how do we start getting those docks created so that when I'm on call and I see that service isn't working, I get it back online and not have to bother you? I think that's that's just such a critical portion of asking questions and sometimes not being afraid to remind other people you missed a step.

Speaker 2: Yes, especially because Tech like we talked about standards, but they're often not fully enforced, and so there's no clear way that anybody is going to do something like every company has their own unique flavor of how they implemented something, even if it's something like how I used eight of us in stock. It might still be very different than another company is in the same service, the same intent,

Speaker 1: so you could have a C I C D implementation. You could have different settings. You be using a different language in someone else. I can't

Speaker 2: go.

Speaker 1: Cool. So but let's talk a little bit more about Jackie. We were talking about that. Let's talk to Pop asked. Let's talk about you as we kind of wind out Um, Sir, Jackie, you have, um, like I said, a career that I feel like doing some really cool things. And right now you're at Met Stack. When you tell me a little bit about what's up, meds back on what you can do.

Speaker 2: Sure, I'm transitioning into a full stack rule, technically, so I'll be doing. I guess I'll define that, too. If it's one of those other times we all have different definitions off, I'll be doing front end as all of this back and work, probably a little bit in database, all with the office perspective, okay? And for our actual products, we're a platform that goes on top of the public cloud that gives a, I guess, secure in compliance space for health care companies and startups, especially to be able to just deploy into and get off the ground and get off the ground running. Sure, yes. The idea is that we cover most of the infrastructure compliance, and we give them the dashboard that they can kind of check off what service is they need? And then they can focus on building their application, insulting the health care problem that they're focused on.

Speaker 1: I got you. That's why I was like, Yeah, very, very big problem that needs to be solved. We always need to have a compliance within these big systems, whether it's fintech or, um, of course, met. It's always compliance, compliance, compliance, especially in a world now where in Europe we have GDP are. And that's because standard for how a lot of other nations across the world should really manage data, period. So that's great to hear. Other than that little talk a little bit about any other frog scared and it projects or any other things that you feel like you let you keep for a kind of rap.

Speaker 2: I actually so for projects I don't really have anything open source because I used to have a lot of problems of feeling, confident enough to kind of go into the open source world. It's big and scary, mostly done private work. But this year's kind of the year, I guess I'm kind of trying to get out of my shell and start doing things. So speaking up, meet ups sticking it develops, stays. And after this I'm really hoping to be able to start doing some open source contribution. Um, the one I'm interested in doing is chaos Toolkit. So I really wanted to serve building that in Sorry,

Speaker 1: very cool saying, Oh yeah, it's a very cool that that's a great idea. So obviously it's been really, really great talking with you, and I want to make sure that if people want to talk with you after, maybe they want to share some of their experience or something other that they got from our conversation, how can they find you? Jackie?

Speaker 2: Sure, they can find me on lengthen as Jacqueline Grand Rod, or they could find me on Twitter as develops Jackie, which is new. Twitter is a whole new world for me,

Speaker 1: well be. Be careful. It's a scary world. I'll make sure Twitter gets shared with everybody as well as your lengthen. Jackie was really great talking with you today. Thank you for sharing some of your time. And, um, I appreciate very much meeting you over a dead Bob States. Toronto. Seems like it's really, really cool community you've got out there.

Speaker 2: Thank you. It's been a great place so far.

Speaker 1: Awesome. Well, we'll be right back. Thank you so much. Jackie. Uh, we'll finish up the podcast and ah, obviously out bake the next one of you to come on, because that's the thing we need. We need more people like Jackie who are new into the business. I've talked a bunch of people who have been in for 15 20 years. I want to hear you. People were, you know, the under 1 15 20 5 to 6 year people who, you know, have found their way in this new strange, cloudy place. So, Jack, thank you so much.

Speaker 2: Thank you for having me.

Speaker 1: We'll be right back. Well, thank you very much. Jackie was great talking to you. And, of course, the big big part about doing this podcast is meeting people that I don't know, learning from them and seeing where other people have come from in the world of technology to wind up on call. So if you'd like to be part like I said, you know how to I told you the beginning of the show, but one more time you can reach out to me on Twitter. It's at Jay Destro or at on call Nightmare. And, of course, you can email me. It's on call nightmares at gmail dot com. I'm hanging out here today with Rico, my pug. He's having a good store behind me, so please excuse that. But anyhow, once again, thank you again for listening to the on call nightmares, podcasts. And every week I will continue to find more technologist, have conversations with who spent time on call. We'll see you next time. Yes, Rico. Big old snort. Thanks
