Speaker 1: you're listening to the on call nightmares pot gas in every week I come here and try to bring you conversations with technologists who have been on call, and this week I'm bringing you foolishness. Schmidt is known as the exchange goddess, and there's actually one of my co workers. You know, I've really gone about my best to make sure that this hasn't been kinda just the Microsoft podcast, and so I really haven't had a lot of Microsoft on it. But I found that Camilla was not only giving inside into some parts about being on call that I just don't understand. But she also gave me Cem, you know, insight into what it's like being a mom and dealing with ah, family while being a very, very on call resource. And when I say very home call, I mean, you are almost always responsible for the service. Is that in front of you? So I'm really lucky that not only that, I just I know Paul Mellon, but, um that she she opened up to me a lot in this conversation, and I built this podcast with the idea of making sure that we learn a lot from it and not just learning from a technology standpoint, but from a human and emotional standpoint, because I really believe that the more we get from one another, the better that weaken be long term and technology and the more we can help people and and grow. So that's that's really why I have been doing this. Um, and if you'd like to be on the podcast it like I do every single freaking week, I'm gonna beg you. Please email me. It's uncool nightmare at gmail dot com. That's right on call nightmares at gmail dot com. You can reach to me on Twitter. It is at G destro or at on call Nightmare. Like I said, the email is on call Night Maier's at gmail dot com. But the Twitter, because it didn't have enough characters, is on call night Mayor. Thanks. Um, other little notes that have been going on. I'm really considering a new logo. I built the logo for the podcast in literally 30 to 45 seconds. I am not a graphic designer. It is not my passion. If you know someone who's passionate is, I could probably pay them and we'll see so get in touch with me. If you would like to help revamp the logo, I I think it really could use it anyhow. Let's get into our interview with Pamela, and, uh, we'll be right back. You're listening to the Uncle Nightmares podcast. In every week I come to you and bring you conversations with technologists who have spent time on call, and this week I bring to you someone that I'm lucky enough to be on a team with. Her name is punishment, and she is a senior cloud advocate of Microsoft, something that I kind of do myself. So I am really, really lucky to find one of my peers and get to chat with her. She has been in the past working with Veum, where very, very heavily she's got the current status podcast and in her free time, she blog's the 24 by seven I t. Connection. And don't forget, she has her website, which is her numbed ypu. If you will exchange Goddess Hill coma.

Speaker 2: Hello J. How are you today? I

Speaker 1: am so lucky to be speaking with one of the top 50 tech influencers and thought leaders that I should follow and I do follow you on Twitter at exchange Goddess. So thank you so much for some of your time today.

Speaker 2: Oh, this is great here. I just want to start by saying your voice is awesome. You have the voice of radio. I mean, like, it's so soothing.

Speaker 1: You know, I did a little bit of college radio and some of that was doing interview shows. And the other part of it that I really like is I listened to way too much NPR, and so it tends to be one of those things that has definitely been noticeable. When I started doing radio or podcasting, it's just it's fun sometimes to just put on the big deep voice and, uh, do that

Speaker 2: great. I love

Speaker 1: it. I like to do the IRA glass Have not Crying is like nasal e, but I like to do the IRA glass. So who we've We've been lucky enough to chat a bunch about things personally and professionally, and you're just a really great person that I've been able to kind of build a relationship with it work. And I wanted thio share some of I guess that the brilliance that I that's been kind of blessed upon me onto other people. So with that got us upon us, if you will. With that some of your experience, it sounds like you've been on call most of your career. And it's not just in technology, but as a mom, too. So I'd like to talk a little bit about both of those. But let's start about how you got involved on call and technology.

Speaker 2: Well, my first job straight out of school. Well, let's even go back. So I put myself through school after getting divorced, and I was already a mom of two little boys, both in diapers. Still, And so I finished school in 18 months, and I got this. Ah, systems Administrator Job network. I guess it was a network administrator. Whatever generic title they had at the time. Sure, back then. And it it was, ah, sort of consulting type role, but not really Jack of all trades. And and I started this job and I thought it was gonna be an internship, but that led them to something more that was there for about three years. But it was pretty much working my butt off. 24 7 It's just, you know, from the very first day, I was building a deploying servers,

Speaker 1: like, say, do you like Oh, well, let's train. You're It's just like, Look, this is the stuff we need you to get on it like,

Speaker 2: yeah, that that's out was Luckily, um, the school wants you. We had some windows server courses, and and, I mean, it was a technical school show. I had, you know, the like, I've built servers before, so I'm like, Okay, this this is good. You know, like, I'm actually utilizing the stuff that, you know, I learned in school in In the real world. I'm working. I'm doing this small, So excited. So the 1st 3 years, I really didn't mind being on call, So I was I was new, you know? And I was just starting my career, so I figured this is what I needed to d'oh. To make something of myself. It was it was to be expected. I mean, you're you're in tech, your nightie, your You know, um, you're expected to respond when you are one of the few people you know on staff at, you know, for the small company or this company because we have multiple clients that we had to work for. And then after that, I decided what I wanted to go into the enterprise and, you know, kind of kind of go big leagues. And that's when it really became like, Oh, crap, yeah. Forget about the small mom pop shop. This is where? Like, uh, yeah, your your uncle. And you've gotta have your phone available and you've got to make sure that you are responding because there's a there's a phone, you know, there's a bone chain and it's a matter of life or death at some points because it was a health. Your organization. We, um we actually, we're we owned hospitals within hospitals. Long, long, long term care hospital should usually like patients that suffered strokes and, uh, need ah, long term care rather than your short term care went into these hospitals, and they're usually, um, floors within bigger hospitals. So we, you know, we managed their patient records. I mean everything that everything came back to our data center here in Pennsylvania so that that environment was probably my first riel taste of like, don't say riel on call. But the 1st 3 years, you're on call. You've got different small mom and pop shops, Sure, but now I'm in the big leagues and I'm responsible for thousands of employees and 30,000 employees. And then there's pictures on top of that. So now you've got this pressure like, Oh my God, Yeah, like I need to respond And their schedules and And it was around the clock, and I did that for Ah, a few years and, yeah,

Speaker 1: was there like it was their rotation? Or is that this was the service that you were responsible for and you were just perpetually on call for it.

Speaker 2: So there was irritation within our team, you know, we rotated in and out. But since there was only two exchange administrators Okay, yeah, we pretty much were like on call the time and that zit. That's where you get stuck with a lot of organizations. Were you downsized and and if you do have a special they like exchange, you're pretty much on call all the time because

Speaker 1: you also important messaging service is tend to be one of those things, and I look at what's going on with slack, and it's funny you think about slack and yeah, and you say like, Well, when slack is down, you can tell when most of the Internet is bored because they can't do their work. And so it's interesting how once you become responsible for ensuring the messaging service is air working, you take on not only just the responsibility of the business you work for, but for every single person that has to communicate with that. And if you've and then I think about that with email. So every single email that doesn't actually go to one of your users, that's a potential Ms of something in business or something and medical critical, you know. So information has to be a CZ good as a dial tone sometime when it comes to email.

Speaker 2: So e mails communication as a lot of people think that, Oh, it's just email and I have to explain them. Okay, yes, it is just email. I sit with air quotes, but a lot of people don't realize the email is used for business communications transactions. Lots of purchase orders come through email. That's, um, automated, you know, between two different systems, and it flows through email. Ah, Medicare referrals. Approvals come through email and actually come through faxes. But then faxes get routed through email. It

Speaker 1: was just thinking that it's

Speaker 2: a complicated system, so you've got email. But then you're also faxing and every organization I've been, too. That's in health care. Those two are integrated in some way, shape or form. Faxes come in. The faxes get rather through your email that goes to an inbox, and then it gets thumb to another repositories somewhere. So between e mail and faxing those communication forms are critical. When it comes to healthcare, it even the financial industry. And yeah, it. It's tough, because if communication is down, it's not just about getting an email. It's about business processes that's affected. And it could be millions of dollars, depending on how reliance you are on that type of system. In that transaction,

Speaker 1: sure, And think about old monitoring systems. Let's let's let's go wait and think about how old monitoring systems that I mean I've had access to. They were relying on email themselves, So if if email was down, then you couldn't even get alerts on what was going on or not going on for that sick So, um, so then you moved through this medical organization, and eventually you are moving forward. Moving forward. How How'd you go into eventually leading where you are now? Is it Microsoft?

Speaker 2: So I what, then? I somehow inherited virtual ization. So that's another complexity. Sure has. Now, you virtualized your whole data center. You're at 98% virtualization in the biggest. And it's global. Whether you do now, now, not not only responsible for communications with e mail, but now you're responsible for the data set. And now you're like, Okay, all these servers running here if something goes down, Okay, somebody's in trouble. So yeah, and this is another company, and we actually did it around. Be around the sun approach in terms of being on call week, we're on call, but we weren't because we had, you know, we had other employees and other parts of the world that would pretty much just take over our you know, our day and our processes. But since I was ah, lead exchange administrator and also one of the lead engineers for managing the virtual ization environment, you're kind of expected when all hell breaks loose was the word it is so basically if it stuff went down bad, I had to be called because there's always a consensus before anything major was done. Any break fix, you always had to get approval from from some of the house. So whether it was me or the person in the U. K, let's say the person India trouble shooted and there's a fix he would have to get somebody else to approve to make sure that, you know, it's basically that the fix is this OK, so often times it was me. Um because, you know, well, times my counterpart open the UK and we we refer to each other like, Okay, I'm gonna put this trucks in and it would sake you have to call me and And I have to do the same thing for him. You know, if something went down, we we made sure that we didn't have to do too often. But when you're responsible for communication but also the virtual ization But you you basically are on on call all the time. Yeah, it becomes this responsibility because now your business is around the clock and then we operate in over 50 countries at the time, so you're always you're pretty much always working, but I didn't I didn't really have a lot of holidays because a lot of the country's didn't celebrate the same holidays.

Speaker 1: So you're constantly concerned about what's going on and ensuring the service's air. Always online, even when you personally needs time for you or you've got things going on in the other world doesn't the rest of the world doesn't necessarily either respect or understand or know are necessarily care that you have something going on

Speaker 2: like Thanksgiving? Yeah, us things. Giving it a go on used to be, but they don't celebrate. Yeah, her Christmas Christmas was usually very respected, you know, But July 4th is another one way. Have their counterparts in the UK we would always ship. This is a divorce day way have 1 July 4th off and they're like, What's gelato? Italy's Jesus? What's July 4th

Speaker 1: this year, when we figured out how to get away from your own London all right way, had a new plan in the U. S. No offense

Speaker 2: way always joked about the types of holidays, but yeah, I mean, but that's the same thing, you know, in the UK in the other countries. They've got holidays. You know they got the queen's birthday. You guys have offered the bank out its queen's birthday. I wish I had off the queen's birthday.

Speaker 1: Really? Well, so let's let's move a little Ford's you. You end up at Microsoft. How many years later?

Speaker 2: Ah, eight months. But I've only been here eight months.

Speaker 1: Okay, so how so?

Speaker 2: This has been, like, 12 13 years doing this. Wow. Yeah. I mean, pretty much from a nice start that I've been on call.

Speaker 1: Wow. Yeah, I I was on call. I think somewhere near around 10 years straight, and you start recognizing how it becomes more of the normal than the abnormal. And, ah, I've lived and I've started having to deep like D program myself a bit to not look at Thea my my phone all the time for alerts or assuming that if I go out, something bad is gonna happen. But you've got

Speaker 2: I've got a story to tell about that.

Speaker 1: Sure. So before we get into stories, there's a little part of the podcast that I call the rules of the podcast. And so they're very simple. One do not incriminate yourself because, you know, there's no need to don't incriminate others. Because we are blameless in our dev ops, way off looking at retrospectives. And more than anything, we want to learn from you. So if something nasty happened, let's see what you learned from the situation and maybe someone else. You don't call right now. We'll take something from it. So with that, why don't you give us in interesting story from being on call?

Speaker 2: So after being uncalled for so many years and switching the Microsoft this past July and like from my last week, I was I actually was on call that week, but I deliver like, yeah, you really think I'm gonna respond? So, um, but it transitioned It was tough for me to actually, like, not look at my phone like like you had mentioned. They say it was a going cold turkey, and it was very difficult because I always felt this urge to look like Is there a my missing out on the alert? And it took me a good three and 1/2 almost four months to get over that feeling that that I was forgetting something.

Speaker 1: Yeah, it's kind of like, I don't want to call PTSD because I don't feel like I want to minimize.

Speaker 2: No, it's not.

Speaker 1: But it's a form of emotional detachment. Is the way I like to think about it is that you are as a operator, Um, who's on call or ah, whatever you are in a dev ops. Whatever you wanna call yourself, you take on a responsibility, and you feel that that responsibility is perpetual in your life, even when it's not. And it's it's a process to make sure that it's not taking over your life. And so once you've actually no longer have that responsibility, you have to start taking away and stripping away some of the rules that you created for yourself because they're not necessarily applicable to the way you live now or what your career is now.

Speaker 2: Yeah, it's easier said than done. Exactly. It is. It is a lot easier said than done until this day. I still sometimes struggle with it. You know, I have been so used to responding to issues and having to worry about the production system that now that I don't have a production system, the worry about I almost feel. I'm not sure what the correct word is,

Speaker 1: is it? Is it almost like foam? Oh, is the thing is

Speaker 2: now

Speaker 1: losing Root for me included some like fear of missing out, like once I lost route on systems, if that's the best way to kind of put

Speaker 2: so sometimes. But now I almost fear, like a part of me is gone.

Speaker 1: Oh, it's not necessarily, I think, that

Speaker 2: if you think it's a trend, it's a transition because, like, I guess with, like, the environments that I manage, I built them from the ground up. So it's almost like my children. And I actually mentioned this in another podcast that it away, like my exchange environment and my virtual ization environment. They were my babies. I think they were just like they were like my kids because I built hm from nothing, especially the virtual ization environment. I mean, you know, 16 Blaze. I've racked in stacks slit in the blade. I mean, I like they were, they came from nothing and, you know, it was just It was just amazing to see what I had done in like the nine months because I knew very little about You know, virtual is a virtual eyes in a data center, A nuisance be anywhere. But, you know, like I learned all this and and then to let it go just like cold turkey a little bit foma, but a little bit like, Wow, I've really transition. And I I kept telling myself, you know, in the time frame that I was, um, transitioning from my job and I knew I was gonna be leaving Like I told myself, I have toe, I've got like, it's almost letting your kids go to college. It's interesting because my my two boys, my oldest, is actually, um, in college. So it's almost around the same time of a son graduating high school in a month and 1/2 and letting them grow up and move on with her life, you know, become adults. It's almost the same way I'm letting go with that past, letting go of what I nurtured. I brought these systems up and I handed it over to you know, my team. I said, Farewell. I'll keep in touch and I'm moving on, and it's like watching my kids grow up, too, because they're you know, Ivory's some head now they are adults, and they're, you know, venturing out and doing doing their own things. And it's been an interesting process because you yeah, love's a foam. Oh, but you know, sadness and happiness at the same time. Yeah. Yeah, like I feel like, Wow, it's a lot. A lot of mixed emotions when you do when you do ended abruptly.

Speaker 1: Sure. Well, so let's let's get into this a little bit more. Um, you've, uh you had to do this obviously with children and help them through the worst times. So it was kind of a worst time when you're you're Elektronik children kind of needed your help.

Speaker 2: Oh, gosh. Lots of way. Had some interesting, um, events. Probably the best one that could say is they're all they're all interesting. I mean, from the vm were side. I remember back in the days when the 10 g, um, network adapters were issues

Speaker 1: in the

Speaker 2: V. M or on the state was version for Oh, there was some were the bug with, um, with the 10 G crawl cards. I know it was specific to HP, but it also affected the Broadcom Kenji cards and we're getting these in and bitten network drops very intimate jobs. And it was weeks of it, you know, calling support. And finally, the one day that happened really bad. It was one of our AARP systems of good virtualized, and people weren't happy. And I pretty much was on the phone for, like, 12 hours a tm where and just just trying to figure this out. And finally, I'm like, You know what? HP Blades are having the same issue that well, it's a different car then, like, you know what? I'm gonna try. They have the 10 G cards that than talent. I know this is Broadcom. I actually reverted back a driver, and I remember that Theo engineer in the call. He's just like like, he was just stuttering the whole time. Like, you know, I'm I'm gonna revert back a limp little driver on. He's like, I really don't think you should do that. I'm like I'm gonna try it because at that 0.12 hours on the phone And

Speaker 1: how long was the production system down as well what

Speaker 2: they were. They were up and down, and it was just he's either mitt and dropped. And, of course, you know when When you're having intimate and jobs, and they're trying to do all this processing for them all these transactions, it's things aren't getting. Things aren't getting processed correctly. So you so you've got people you know, pretty much going. Are you fixing it? Are you fixing it? So I tried it. I reverted back to an old driver and you know it fixed. I don't have any I didn't have that. Didn't have any issues.

Speaker 1: It's sometimes the most obvious things. Guard are the fixes that get us out of the biggest problems.

Speaker 2: Yeah, and so I kept that old driver on And then lo and behold, there was no driver update that came out about. I'm going to say maybe two or three months later, and I always have, like, I held off when we tested it. And then it was like the next release that we have. We updated the driver just, you know, give me current. But from that was the virtual ization side and then also from the exchange shy. There's always good ones with exchange because you always have some c i o pacing by your cubicle.

Speaker 1: Where's my where's my email? Where's my you know

Speaker 2: yet? Did you fix it yet? Did you? Yeah. There. Tons of stories on that one. I think the best one was we literally were down. Our entire environment was down and and, uh, it turned out it was a corrupted calendar. Invite in the mail box from Nick's. Uh, we were still in 2003. Done. And I we hadn't gotten Thio 2010 yet. We're like the environment was prepped, but we hadn't done in. Migrations were still in 2003 and it was one of our directors. She had a bad calendar invite that got corrupted, and it just screwed up one of the tables. And we needed to your three support Microsoft to help us figure this out. It was he was bad. I was on the phone for eight hours and other hand it over to my colleague in India, and he had used on the film for another six hours on, and I got up and I took over. I didn't sleep for 36 hours until we finally got the table cleared and everything, but yeah, because it actually so she had a corrupted calendar invite in it went to another database. She had she ford it out to a whole bunch of I t people. So we all got it. And we basically, uh we had to go into all the databases that had this bad calendar inviting cleaning up. And it was it was long. I just live for 36 hours. Yeah, it was. It was a long couple of days. That was probably the worst one was back in 2000 and 2003 days of exchange, which I will still say was that those were tank, So yeah, so thanks.

Speaker 1: So in those times, here's the thing that I want a question. How how do you and here's that where we learn from, how do you as not just a person that's working, but as a mom. Recover from working 36 hour straight on an incident like, how does that start to happen? That process of getting back to normal and how is like, say, you know, I don't were you ah, with a partner at the time? Yes. Okay. Like how does your partner get impacted by that as well that that's just a question.

Speaker 2: You know what? It's It's tough. You have to have a good support system. And there there is this understanding that Okay, I'm in. I'm in. I t in this company. Here are my responsibilities. I have to do, Uncle. I have. These are Yeah, this is my system. But I have to respond. Yeah, though as a family, that that's just one of the understanding is that we have Mom's gotta work, and there's a downside to that because I work a lot all the time. And there I wish I can. I wish I could take it back. There were, you know, I missed out on a lot of my children's lives and I events, and if I had to do it again, I probably wouldn't have worked as much and knowing Now you know what life is like. Sure, I would have said no more often, and and they probably would have asked for more help in terms of OK, maybe we maybe we need to slip along rather than trying to fix. Is this limp along? Let's get the system up. And I didn't learn that till later when I started to realize that, Okay, my kids, where my kids are growing up and I'm missing out things. Yes, I'm at the soccer game, but I'm I'm still my own.

Speaker 1: Yeah. Are you really? There sure

Speaker 2: wasn't present. And that that took that took a few years for me to realize what I was doing. And I actually talk about this a lot, but I've been doing a lot of, um, diversity talks. And this is something that I did you bring up that we work so much and it's and that we tell ourselves that we're doing this for a family because we're trying to make a living. Support them, especially for single moms. You know, in, um, Mom's in general, because we, you know, this is the career were chosen. We're, you know, we're making that living we're providing for a family.

Speaker 1: And also, in a way, you're also moving past societal norms that we have America years, years passed to see Well, Mom takes care of the kids. We know that's not true anymore. We know that that's

Speaker 2: not how we're setting these examples, but the same time I was setting a bad example by always working and always being on call. So that's something that I'm I'm actually advocating for for others that ah, earned that that were in my shoes. I totally get that. You have to be on call, but be there for your family because they're only young once. It's something that I I feel genuinely bad about. I wish I wish I was a known. Gather back then. You know, being on call all the time is isn't the best. It's not good for your health. So it's not good for your mental state. Because now that I've gone cold turkey, I'm like, Wow, what if I do them myself?

Speaker 1: Yeah, I think the one thing that I've talked to a bunch of managers lately for people who are in senior roles and one of the things that I've really taken from a bunch of them lately is just how they're working to ensure that the problems that they faced is younger. On call people don't necessarily impact the next group of people that they're managing. So creating better systems of recovery, creating better backups when, um or Ecstasy not back us. But you're on call secondary baking system. You're so that it you're on call secondary can help you through it. like I spoke to someone recently who told me that, you know, the way he trains on call is that you know, you go primary on a rotation, but for the 1st 2 weeks, your secondary is the person that really fixes everything. You is a primary, your responsibilities to start learning how to respond to the incidents and it begin contacting and creating. You know, the, uh, the chain of evidence that happens during an incident, and then eventually after those two weeks and you're next ride in the rotation or something, then you actually get left on your own. You have secondaries, But, you know, in the end you're shadowing people. And I think that if be personally, if I had greater training based on empathy, I think that I would have had a better experience on call when I was younger.

Speaker 2: Yeah, I think a lot of us there are that are on call all the time. There's also that power of letting go on delegating. Think that I think that's hard to do. And, you know, I'm saying it on air recorded that a lot of us can't let that go or have trouble with that they not go that I know early on in my career? Yeah, because those are my babies, you know, they're my surfers and letting it go for another engineer to marriage. That was that happen. It takes maturity to do that as well. And I know that, you know, lessons learned that. You know, um, I I would do it a lot differently and probably delegate a lot more and let go a little bit more of it and that others, you know, really help me out Brothers the same. But at the same time, you know, our our departments were getting shrunk and, you know, do more with less soon. There's obviously that struggle. But as my kids, as as they saw me join this now they just know me as my mom always works so that it's hard them and I'm changing. I'm changing that now. I'm changing that perception. What? Mom bombs actually around that It's nice tea to hear my kids say that.

Speaker 1: Well, that's great. And, um, you know, you're bringing, I think, a human element to this podcast that I've been looking ah, lot for, especially when it comes to how people are impacted by being on call like as an individual and then the people in their lives, the repercussions off, you know, spending hours and hours in front of a computer, trying to figure something out and then dealing with phone calls. And eventually, when you're on the phone, call more than your talking to the person that you love. You start to really feel it in your your own heart because you hear it from them. And so that's the thing that I've started toe really want to share with people. And I really appreciate you helping um, do that is that there's got to be a reminder that we are still people, even if we are technologists and that you need to allow yourself and those around you to still have lives that involve you.

Speaker 2: Oh, yeah, it's I mean, I look back and I feel like, wow, that there was a lot of times are I wish I could spend more time with my kids and, you know, just been there mentally with, um rather than just sitting there. Yeah, Mom, moms at the play. But mom really was that the mom was responding to emails, and, you know, making sure stuff was running. And you know what? That's not fair to them. It wasn't fair to them. And it's not fair to your family and having gone through this, you know, I encourage others that are going through it where you're gonna be in the situations where you just have to work. Yeah, but when you make a pattern of it and you're not president with your family or, you know someone special to you Oh, your friends, it it does hurt in the long run, is it not? I hurts you, but that hurts them in the hurt, your relationship. So that's him. That's my thing with people where we're all humans here. And we could, you know, be more human in a technical world. That would be great.

Speaker 1: Yeah, that that that's a really cool way of saying it. So let's let's start walking this towards the end, because I've really appreciated it and some people who are listening now they may be getting ready to turn off. You know, if you're on the New Jersey Turnpike or some freeway in California, or maybe you're on public transit anywhere and you're getting close to your stop we're gonna help you get to the end. And the way we do that is probably the first thing I want to say is if someone's on call right now, right this moment. What's piece of advice you give them,

Speaker 2: uh, ask for help. That that's that's one of the biggest things is ask for help. If you were stuck if you were stuck on something, ask for help. Don't be afraid to ask for help and don't think you have to do with on your own. There's some There's always somebody there that that that could help you. And it's gonna make on call a lot A lot better when you ask for help.

Speaker 1: Cool. Well, thank you very much. And what have you got going? Ah, lately? Any interesting talks, you're gonna coming up for any events you're gonna be heading to,

Speaker 2: So I'm gonna, um I'm leaving Sunday for Switzerland. I'm gonna be a text summit 2019. Sweet human and burn. And I'll be talking about as your management called governance. And then I will be kicking off the Microsoft Create Start up toward New York City, China. I was attend your April night.

Speaker 1: Well, guess who's guess who's gonna be there. Yeah. Yes, I will be there. I'll join you in April 9th for those years listening, we're having a startup tour. Microsoft, if you'd like to be part of it, I'll put a link in the, uh, in the comments center or not the comments, but in the description so you'll be able to find out how to join myself. Camilla and ah, bunch of the really cool people who are gonna be in New York City April 9th. Helping people learn about had it gets started using azure for their startups. And so I think that's really awesome who you are truly the exchange goddess. Um, I I feel so lucky that I get to personally work with you. And I also feel so lucky for the people who are gonna get to hear this and learn not just about you, but how to do this a little bit better. So thank you very much for your time.

Speaker 2: Thank you, J, for having me.

Speaker 1: You're so welcome. So we'll be right back. Will finish up the show. And, uh, we'll see you soon. Thanks for Thank you. Thanks a lot. That was super super awesome. I really you know, you learn to appreciate people when you talk to them. And the more I talk to Puma, the more I appreciate her. She's just someone that's so full of not only guidance but just brilliance. She's golden, and I don't know any other way to describe Puma. She's absolutely golden. If you'd like to be another person that joins me on the podcast once again, just getting touched me via email on call nightmares at gmail dot com. Or send me a tweet at J destro or at on call Nightmare. So we'll see you next week. Go, Yankees. Thanks a lot.

